When shall we three meet again? In thunder, lightning, or in rain? 
When the hurlyburly's done, When the battle's lost and won
That will be ere the set of sun
Where the place? 
Upon the heath
There to meet with Macbeth
I come, Graymalkin
Anon! Fair is foul, and foul is fair.
Hover through the fog and filthy air
What bloody man is that? 
He can report, As seemeth by his plight, of the revolt The newest state
This is the sergeant Who like a good and hardy soldier fought 'Gainst my captivity
Hail, brave friend! 
Say to the King the knowledge of the broil As thou didst leave it
Doubtful it stood, As two spent swimmers that do cling together And choke their art
The merciless Macdonwald- Worthy to be a rebel, for to that The multiplying villainies of nature Do swarm upon him from the Western Isles Of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;
And Fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling, Show'd like a rebel's whore
But all's too weak; 
For brave Macbeth -well he deserves that name- Disdaining Fortune, with his brandish'd steel, Which smoked with bloody execution, Like Valor's minion carved out his passage Till he faced the slave, Which ne'er shook hands, nor bade farewell to him, Till he unseam'd him from the nave to the chaps, And fix'd his head upon our battlements
O valiant cousin! 
Worthy gentleman! 
As whence the sun 'gins his reflection Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break, 
So from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come Discomfort swells
No sooner justice had, with valor arm'd, Compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels, 
But the Norweyan lord, surveying vantage, With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men, Began a fresh assault
Dismay'd not this Our captains, Macbeth and Banquo? 
Yes, As sparrows eagles, or the hare the lion
If I say sooth, I must report they were As cannons overcharged with double cracks, 
So they Doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe
Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds, 
Or memorize another Golgotha, 
I cannot tellBut I am faint; 
So well thy words become thee as thy wounds; 
They smack of honor both
Go get him surgeons
Exit Sergeant, attended
Who comes here?
The worthy Thane of Ross
What a haste looks through his eyes! 
So should he look That seems to speak things strange
God save the King! DUNCAN
Whence camest thou, worthy Thane? 
From Fife, great King, Where the Norweyan banners flout the sky And fan our people cold
Norway himself, with terrible numbers, Assisted by that most disloyal traitor The Thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict, Till that Bellona's bridegroom, lapp'd in proof, Confronted him with self-comparisons, Point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm, Curbing his lavish spirit; and, to conclude, 
The victory fell on us
Great happiness! 
That now Sweno, the Norways' king, craves composition; 
Nor would we deign him burial of his men Till he disbursed, at Saint Colme's Inch, 
Ten thousand dollars to our general use
No more that Thane of Cawdor shall deceive Our bosom interest
Go pronounce his present death, 
And with his former title greet Macbeth
I'll see it done
What he hath lost, noble Macbeth hath won
Where hast thou been, sister? 
Sister, where thou? 
A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap, 
And mounch'd, and mounch'd, and mounch'd
"Give me," quoth I
"Aroint thee, witch!" 
the rump-fed ronyon cries
Her husband's to Aleppo gone, master o' the Tiger; 
But in a sieve I'll thither sail, 
And, like a rat without a tail, I'll do, I'll do, and I'll do
I'll give thee a wind
And I another
I myself have all the other, And the very ports they blow, 
All the quarters that they know I' the shipman's card
I will drain him dry as hay: 
Sleep shall neither night nor day Hang upon his penthouse lid; 
He shall live a man forbid
Weary se'nnights nine times nine Shall he dwindle, peak, and pine; 
Though his bark cannot be lost, 
Yet it shall be tempest-toss'd
Look what I have
Show me, show me
Here I have a pilot's thumb, 
Wreck'd as homeward he did come
A drum, a drum! Macbeth doth come
The weird sisters, hand in hand, Posters of the sea and land, 
Thus do go about, about, Thrice to thine, and thrice to mine, And thrice again, to make up nine
Peace! The charm's wound up.
So foul and fair a day I have not seen
How far is't call'd to Forres? 
What are these So wither'd and so wild in their attire, That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth, 
And yet are on't? 
Live you? 
or are you aught That man may question? 
You seem to understand me, 
By each at once her choppy finger laying Upon her skinny lips
You should be women, 
And yet your beards forbid me to interpret That you are so
Speak, if you can
What are you? 
All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, Thane of Glamis! 
All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, Thane of Cawdor! 
All hail, Macbeth, that shalt be King hereafter! 
Good sir, why do you start, and seem to fear Things that do sound so fair? 
I' the name of truth, Are ye fantastical or that indeed Which outwardly ye show? 
My noble partner You greet with present grace and great prediction Of noble having and of royal hope, That he seems rapt withal
To me you speak not
If you can look into the seeds of time, 
And say which grain will grow and which will not, 
Speak then to me, 
who neither beg nor fear Your favors nor your hate
Hail! 
Lesser than Macbeth, and greater
Not so happy, yet much happier
Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none
So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo! 
Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more
By Sinel's death I know I am Thane of Glamis; 
But how of Cawdor? 
The Thane of Cawdor lives, A prosperous gentleman; 
and to be King Stands not within the prospect of belief, No more than to be Cawdor
Say from whence You owe this strange intelligence, 
or why Upon this blasted heath you stop our way With such prophetic greeting? 
Speak, I charge you
The earth hath bubbles as the water has, And these are of them
Whither are they vanish'd? 
Into the air, 
and what seem'd corporal melted As breath into the wind
Would they had stay'd! 
Were such things here as we do speak about? 
Or have we eaten on the insane root That takes the reason prisoner? 
Your children shall be kings
You shall be King
And Thane of Cawdor too
Went it not so? BANQUO
To the selfsame tune and words
Is execution done on Cawdor? 
Are not Those in commission yet return'd?
My liege, They are not yet come back
But I have spoke With one that saw him die, 
who did report That very frankly he confess'd his treasons, 
Implored your Highness' pardon, 
and set forth A deep repentance
Nothing in his life Became him like the leaving it; 
he died As one that had been studied in his death, 
To throw away the dearest thing he owed As 'twere a careless trifle
There's no art To find the mind's construction in the face: 
He was a gentleman on whom I built An absolute trust.
O worthiest cousin! 
The sin of my ingratitude even now Was heavy on me
Thou art so far before, 
That swiftest wing of recompense is slow To overtake thee
Would thou hadst less deserved, 
That the proportion both of thanks and payment Might have been mine! 
Only I have left to say, More is thy due than more than all can pay
The service and the loyalty I owe, 
In doing it, pays itself
Your Highness' part Is to receive our duties, 
and our duties Are to your throne and state, children and servants, 
Which do but what they should, by doing everything Safe toward your love and honor
I have begun to plant thee, 
and will labor To make thee full of growing
Noble Banquo, That hast no less deserved, 
nor must be known No less to have done so; 
let me infold thee And hold thee to my heart
There if I grow, 
The harvest is your own
My plenteous joys, Wanton in fullness, seek to hide themselves In drops of sorrow
Sons, kinsmen, thanes, And you whose places are the nearest, know We will establish our estate upon Our eldest, Malcolm, whom we name hereafter The Prince of Cumberland; 
which honor must Not unaccompanied invest him only, 
But signs of nobleness, like stars, shall shine On all deservers
From hence to Inverness, 
And bind us further to you
The rest is labor, which is not used for you
I'll be myself the harbinger, 
and make joyful The hearing of my wife with your approach; 
So humbly take my leave
My worthy Cawdor! 
The Prince of Cumberland! 
That is a step On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap, For in my way it lies
Stars, hide your fires; 
Let not light see my black and deep desires
The eye wink at the hand; 
yet let that be Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see True, worthy Banquo! 
He is full so valiant, 
And in his commendations I am fed; 
It is a banquet to me
Let's after him, Whose care is gone before to bid us welcome
It is a peerless kinsman
"They met me in the day of success, 
and I have learned by the perfectest report they have more in them than mortal knowledge
When I burned in desire to question them further, 
they made themselves air, into which they vanished
Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives from the King, who all-hailed me 'Thane of Cawdor'; 
by which title, before, these weird sisters saluted me and referred me to the coming on of time with 'Hail, King that shalt be!' 
This have I thought good to deliver thee, my dearest partner of greatness, 
that thou mightst not lose the dues of rejoicing, 
by being ignorant of what greatness is promised thee
Lay it to thy heart, and farewell."
Glamis thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be What thou art promised
Yet do I fear thy nature
It is too full o' the milk of human kindness To catch the nearest way
Thou wouldst be great; 
Art not without ambition, 
but without The illness should attend it
What thou wouldst highly, That wouldst thou holily; 
wouldst not play false, 
And yet wouldst wrongly win
Thou'ldst have, great Glamis, That which cries, "Thus thou must do, if thou have it;
And that which rather thou dost fear to do Than wishest should be undone." Hie thee hither, 
That I may pour my spirits in thine ear, 
And chastise with the valor of my tongue All that impedes thee from the golden round, Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem To have thee crown'd withal.
What is your tidings? 
The King comes here tonight
Thou'rt mad to say it! 
Is not thy master with him? 
who, were't so, Would have inform'd for preparation
So please you, it is true; 
our Thane is coming
One of my fellows had the speed of him, Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more Than would make up his message
Give him tending; 
He brings great news
The raven himself is hoarse That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan Under my battlements
Come, you spirits That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full Of direst cruelty! 
Make thick my blood, 
Stop up the access and passage to remorse, 
That no compunctious visitings of nature Shake my fell purpose nor keep peace between The effect and it! 
Come to my woman's breasts, 
And take my milk for gall, your murthering ministers, Wherever in your sightless substances You wait on nature's mischief! 
Come, thick night, And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell That my keen knife see not the wound it makes Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark To cry, "Hold, hold!"  Enter Macbeth.
Great Glamis! 
Worthy Cawdor! 
Greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter! 
Thy letters have transported me beyond This ignorant present, 
and I feel now The future in the instant
My dearest love, Duncan comes here tonight
And when goes hence?
Tomorrow, as he purposes
O, never Shall sun that morrow see! 
Your face, my Thane, is as a book where men May read strange matters
To beguile the time, Look like the time; 
bear welcome in your eye, Your hand, your tongue; 
look like the innocent flower, But be the serpent under it
He that's coming Must be provided for; 
and you shall put This night's great business into my dispatch, 
Which shall to all our nights and days to come Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom
We will speak further
Only look up clear; To alter favor ever is to fear
Leave all the rest to me.
This castle hath a pleasant seat; 
the air Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself Unto our gentle senses
This guest of summer, The temple-haunting martlet, does approve By his loved mansionry that the heaven's breath Smells wooingly here
No jutty, frieze, Buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird Hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle; 
Where they most breed and haunt, 
I have observed The air is delicate.
See, see, our honor'd hostess! 
The love that follows us sometime is our trouble, Which still we thank as love
Herein I teach you How you shall bid God 'ield us for your pains, And thank us for your trouble
All our service In every point twice done, and then done double, 
Were poor and single business to contend Against those honors deep and broad wherewith Your Majesty loads our house
For those of old, And the late dignities heap'd up to them, We rest your hermits
Where's the Thane of Cawdor? 
We coursed him at the heels and had a purpose To be his purveyor; 
but he rides well, And his great love, sharp as his spur, hath holp him To his home before us
Fair and noble hostess, We are your guest tonight
Your servants ever Have theirs, themselves, and what is theirs, 
in compt, To make their audit at your Highness' pleasure, 
Still to return your own
Give me your hand; Conduct me to mine host
We love him highly, And shall continue our graces towards him
By your leave, hostess
How now, what news? 
He has almost supp'd
Why have you left the chamber? 
Hath he ask'd for me? 
Know you not he has? 
We will proceed no further in this business: 
He hath honor'd me of late, 
and I have bought Golden opinions from all sorts of people, 
Which would be worn now in their newest gloss, Not cast aside so soon
Was the hope drunk Wherein you dress'd yourself? 
Hath it slept since? 
And wakes it now, to look so green and pale At what it did so freely? 
From this time Such I account thy love
Art thou afeard To be the same in thine own act and valor As thou art in desire? 
Wouldst thou have that Which thou esteem'st the ornament of life And live a coward in thine own esteem, 
Letting "I dare not" wait upon "I would" Like the poor cat i' the adage? 
Prithee, peace! I dare do all that may become a man; 
Who dares do more is none
What beast wast then That made you break this enterprise to me? 
When you durst do it, then you were a man, And, to be more than what you were, you would Be so much more the man
Nor time nor place Did then adhere, and yet you would make both
They have made themselves, and that their fitness now Does unmake you
I have given suck and know How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me- I would, while it was smiling in my face, Have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gums And dash'd the brains out had I so sworn as you Have done to this
If we should fail? 
We fail? 
But screw your courage to the sticking-place And we'll not fail
When Duncan is asleep- Whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey Soundly invite him- his two chamberlains Will I with wine and wassail so convince That memory, 
the warder of the brain, Shall be a fume and the receipt of reason A limbeck only
When in swinish sleep Their drenched natures lie as in a death, 
What cannot you and I perform upon The unguarded Duncan? 
What not put upon His spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt Of our great quell? 
Bring forth men-children only, For thy undaunted mettle should compose Nothing but males
Will it not be received, When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two Of his own chamber and used their very daggers, That they have done't? 
I am settled and bend up Each corporal agent to this terrible feat
Away, and mock the time with fairest show: 
False face must hide what the false heart doth know 
How goes the night, boy? 
The moon is down; 
I have not heard the clock
And she goes down at twelve
I take't 'tis later, sir
Hold, take my sword
There's husbandry in heaven, 
Their candles are all out
Take thee that too
A heavy summons lies like lead upon me, And yet I would not sleep
Merciful powers, Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature Gives way to in repose!
Give me my sword
Who's there? 
What, sir, not yet at rest? 
He hath been in unusual pleasure and Sent forth great largess to your offices
This diamond he greets your wife withal, 
By the name of most kind hostess, and shut up In measureless content
Being unprepared, Our will became the servant to defect, Which else should free have wrought
I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters: 
To you they have show'd some truth
I think not of them; 
Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve, We would spend it in some words upon that business, If you would grant the time
At your kind'st leisure
If you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis, 
It shall make honor for you
So I lose none In seeking to augment it, 
but still keep My bosom franchised and allegiance clear, 
I shall be counsel'd
Good repose the while
Thanks, sir, the like to you
Exeunt Banquo and Fleance
Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready, 
She strike upon the bell
Get thee to bed
Is this a dagger which I see before me, The handle toward my hand? 
Come, let me clutch thee
I have thee not, and yet I see thee still
Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible To feeling as to sight? 
Or art thou but A dagger of the mind, a false creation, Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain? 
I see thee yet, in form as palpable As this which now I draw
Thou marshal'st me the way that I was going, And such an instrument I was to use
Mine eyes are made the fools o' the other senses, 
Or else worth all the rest
I see thee still, 
And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood, Which was not so before
There's no such thing: It is the bloody business which informs Thus to mine eyes
Now o'er the one half-world Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse The curtain'd sleep; 
witchcraft celebrates Pale Hecate's offerings; 
and wither'd Murther, Alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf, Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace, With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design Moves like a ghost
Thou sure and firm-set earth, Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear Thy very stones prate of my whereabout, 
And take the present horror from the time, Which now suits with it
Whiles I threat, he lives; 
Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives
A bell rings
I go, and it is done; 
the bell invites me
Hear it not, Duncan, for it is a knell That summons thee to heaven, or to hell
That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold; 
What hath quench'd them hath given me fire
Hark! Peace! 
It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman, Which gives the stern'st good night
He is about it: The doors are open, 
and the surfeited grooms Do mock their charge with snores
I have drugg'd their possets That death and nature do contend about them, Whether they live or die
ho's there? what, ho! 
Alack, I am afraid they have awaked And 'tis not done
The attempt and not the deed Confounds us
Hark! I laid their daggers ready; 
He could not miss 'em
Had he not resembled My father as he slept, I had done't.
Hark! Who lies i' the second chamber? 
This is a sorry sight
Looks on his hands
A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight
There's one did laugh in 's sleep, and one cried, "Murther!" That they did wake each other
I stood and heard them, But they did say their prayers and address'd them Again to sleep
There are two lodged together
One cried, "God bless us!" and "Amen" the other, As they had seen me with these hangman's hands
Listening their fear, I could not say "Amen," When they did say, "God bless us!" 
Consider it not so deeply
But wherefore could not I pronounce "Amen"? 
I had most need of blessing, and "Amen" Stuck in my throat
These deeds must not be thought After these ways; 
so, it will make us mad
I heard a voice cry, "Sleep no more! Macbeth does murther sleep" -the innocent sleep, 
Sleep that knits up the ravel'd sleave of care, 
The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath, Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course, Chief nourisher in life's feast- LADY MACBETH
What do you mean?
Still it cried, "Sleep no more!" to all the house; 
"Glamis hath murther'd sleep, and therefore Cawdor Shall sleep no more
Macbeth shall sleep no more." 
Who was it that thus cried? 
Why, worthy Thane, You do unbend your noble strength, to think So brainsickly of things
Go, get some water And wash this filthy witness from your hand
Why did you bring these daggers from the place? 
They must lie there
Go carry them, and smear The sleepy grooms with blood
I'll go no more
I am afraid to think what I have done; 
Look on't again I dare not
Infirm of purpose! Give me the daggers
The sleeping and the dead Are but as pictures; 
'tis the eye of childhood That fears a painted devil
If he do bleed, I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal, For it must seem their guilt
Whence is that knocking? 
How is't with me, when every noise appals me? 
What hands are here? 
Ha, they pluck out mine eyes! 
Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand? 
No, this my hand will rather The multitudinous seas incarnadine, Making the green one red.
Re-enter Lady Macbeth.
My hands are of your color, but I shame To wear a heart so white
I hear knocking At the south entry
Retire we to our chamber
A little water clears us of this deed
How easy is it then! 
Your constancy Hath left you unattended
Hark, more knocking
Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us And show us to be watchers
Be not lost So poorly in your thoughts
To know my deed, 'twere best not know myself
Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I would thou couldst! Exeunt.
Here's a knocking indeed! 
If a man were porter of Hell Gate, he should have old turning the key
Knock, knock, knock! Who's there, i' the name of Belzebub? 
Here's a farmer that hanged himself on th' expectation of plenty
Come in time!
Have napkins enow about you; here you'll sweat for't
Knock, knock! Who's there, in th' other devil's name?
Faith, here's an equivocator that could swear in both the scales against either scale, who committed treason enough for God's sake, 
yet could not equivocate to heaven
O, come in, equivocator
Knock, knock, knock! Who's there? 
Faith, here's an English tailor come hither, for stealing out of a French hose
Come in, tailor; 
here you may roast your goose
Knock, knock! Never at quiet! 
What are you? But this place is too cold for hell
I'll devil-porter it no further
I had thought to have let in some of all professions, that go the primrose way to the everlasting bonfire
Anon, anon! 
I pray you, remember the porter
Opens the gate.
Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed, That you do lie so late? 
Faith, sir, we were carousing till the second cock; 
and drink, sir, is a great provoker of three things
What three things does drink especially provoke? 
Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and urine
Lechery, sir, it provokes and unprovokes: 
it provokes the desire, but it takes away the performance
Therefore much drink may be said to be an equivocator with lechery: 
it makes him, and it mars him; it sets him on, and it takes him off; 
it persuades him and disheartens him; 
makes him stand to and not stand to; 
in conclusion, equivocates him in a sleep, and giving him the lie, leaves him
I believe drink gave thee the lie last night
That it did, sir, i' the very throat on me; 
but requited him for his lie, and, I think, being too strong for him, though he took up my legs sometime, yet I made shift to cast him
Is thy master stirring?
Our knocking has awaked him; here he comes
Good morrow, noble sir
Good morrow, both
Is the King stirring, worthy Thane? 
He did command me to call timely on him; 
I have almost slipp'd the hour
I'll bring you to him
I know this is a joyful trouble to you, But yet 'tis one
The labor we delight in physics pain
This is the door
I'll make so bold to call, For 'tis my limited service
Goes the King hence today? 
He does; he did appoint so
The night has been unruly
Where we lay, Our chimneys were blown down, and, as they say, Lamentings heard i' the air, strange screams of death, 
And prophesying with accents terrible Of dire combustion and confused events New hatch'd to the woeful time
The obscure bird Clamor'd the livelong night
Some say the earth Was feverous and did shake
'Twas a rough night
My young remembrance cannot parallel A fellow to it.
O horror, horror, horror! 
Tongue nor heart Cannot conceive nor name thee
What's the matter? 
Confusion now hath made his masterpiece
Most sacrilegious murther hath broke ope The Lord's anointed temple and stole thence The life o' the building
What is't you say? 
the life? 
Mean you his Majesty? 
Approach the chamber, and destroy your sight With a new Gorgon
Do not bid me speak; 
See, and then speak yourselves
Exeunt Macbeth and Lennox
Awake, awake! Ring the alarum bell
Murther and treason! Banquo and Donalbain! Malcolm, awake! 
Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit, And look on death itself! 
Up, up, and see The great doom's image!
As from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites To countenance this horror! Ring the bell
What's the business, That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley The sleepers of the house? 
Speak, speak! 
O gentle lady, 'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak: 
The repetition in a woman's ear Would murther as it fell.
Our royal master's murther'd
Woe, alas! What, in our house? 
Too cruel anywhere
Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself, And say it is not so.
Re-enter Macbeth and Lennox, with Ross.
Had I but died an hour before this chance, 
I had lived a blessed time, for from this instant There's nothing serious in mortality
All is but toys; 
renown and grace is dead, The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees Is left this vault to brag of.
What is amiss? 
You are, and do not know't
The spring, the head, the fountain of your blood Is stopped, the very source of it is stopp'd
Your royal father's murther'd
O, by whom? 
Those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done't
Their hands and faces were all badged with blood; 
So were their daggers, which unwiped we found Upon their pillows
They stared, and were distracted; 
no man's life Was to be trusted with them
O, yet I do repent me of my fury, That I did kill them
Wherefore did you so? 
Who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious, Loyal and neutral, in a moment? No man
The expedition of my violent love Outrun the pauser reason
Here lay Duncan, His silver skin laced with his golden blood, 
And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in nature For ruin's wasteful entrance; 
there, the murtherers, Steep'd in the colors of their trade, 
their daggers Unmannerly breech'd with gore
Who could refrain, 
That had a heart to love, and in that heart Courage to make 's love known? 
Help me hence, ho! 
Look to the lady
Why do we hold our tongues, That most may claim this argument for ours? 
What should be spoken here, where our fate, Hid in an auger hole, may rush and seize us? 
Let's away, Our tears are not yet brew'd
Nor our strong sorrow Upon the foot of motion
Look to the lady
Macbeth is carried out
And when we have our naked frailties hid, 
That suffer in exposure, 
let us meet And question this most bloody piece of work To know it further
Fears and scruples shake us
In the great hand of God I stand, 
and thence Against the undivulged pretense I fight Of treasonous malice
And so do I
Let's briefly put on manly readiness And meet i' the hall together
Exeunt all but Malcolm and Donalbain
What will you do? 
Let's not consort with them
To show an unfelt sorrow is an office Which the false man does easy
I'll to England
To Ireland, I; 
our separated fortune Shall keep us both the safer
Where we are There's daggers in men's smiles; 
the near in blood, The nearer bloody
This murtherous shaft that's shot Hath not yet lighted, 
and our safest way Is to avoid the aim
Therefore to horse; 
And let us not be dainty of leave-taking, But shift away
There's warrant in that theft Which steals itself when there's no mercy left
Threescore and ten I can remember well,
Within the volume of which time I have seen Hours dreadful and things strange, 
but this sore night Hath trifled former knowings
Ah, good father, Thou seest the heavens, 
as troubled with man's act, Threaten his bloody stage
By the clock 'tis day, And yet dark night strangles the traveling lamp
Is't night's predominance, or the day's shame, 
That darkness does the face of earth entomb, 
When living light should kiss it? 
'Tis unnatural, Even like the deed that's done
On Tuesday last A falcon towering in her pride of place Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd
And Duncan's horses-a thing most strange and certain- Beauteous and swift, 
the minions of their race, Turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out, Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would make War with mankind
'Tis said they eat each other
They did so, to the amazement of mine eyes That look'd upon't.
Here comes the good Macduff
How goes the world, sir, now?
Why, see you not?
Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
Those that Macbeth hath slain
Alas, the day! 
What good could they pretend? 
They were suborn'd: Malcolm and Donalbain, 
the King's two sons, Are stol'n away and fled, which puts upon them Suspicion of the deed
'Gainst nature still! 
Thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin up Thine own life's means! 
Then 'tis most like The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth
He is already named, and gone to Scone To be invested
Where is Duncan's body? 
Carried to Colmekill, The sacred storehouse of his predecessors And guardian of their bones
Will you to Scone? 
No, cousin, I'll to Fife
Well, I will thither
Well, may you see things well done there
Adieu, Lest our old robes sit easier than our new! ROSS
God's benison go with you and with those That would make good of bad and friends of foes! Exeunt.
Thou hast it now: King, Cawdor, Glamis, all, As the weird women promised, and I fear Thou play'dst most foully for't; 
yet it was said It should not stand in thy posterity, But that myself should be the root and father Of many kings
If there come truth from them (As upon thee, Macbeth, their speeches shine) Why, 
by the verities on thee made good, 
May they not be my oracles as well And set me up in hope? But hush, no more.
Enter Macbeth as King, Lady Macbeth as Queen, Lennox, Ross, Lords, Ladies, and Attendants.
Here's our chief guest
If he had been forgotten, 
It had been as a gap in our great feast And all thing unbecoming
Tonight we hold a solemn supper, sir, And I'll request your presence
Let your Highness Command upon me, to the which my duties Are with a most indissoluble tie Forever knit
Ride you this afternoon? 
Ay, my good lord
We should have else desired your good advice, 
Which still hath been both grave and prosperous In this day's council; 
but we'll take tomorrow
Is't far you ride? 
As far, my lord, as will fill up the time 'Twixt this and supper
Go not my horse the better, 
I must become a borrower of the night For a dark hour or twain
Fail not our feast
My lord, I will not
We hear our bloody cousins are bestow'd In England and in Ireland, 
not confessing Their cruel parricide, filling their hearers With strange invention
But of that tomorrow, 
When therewithal we shall have cause of state Craving us jointly
Hie you to horse; 
adieu, Till you return at night
Goes Fleance with you? 
Ay, my good lord
Our time does call upon 's
I wish your horses swift and sure of foot, 
And so I do commend you to their backs
Let every man be master of his time Till seven at night; 
to make society The sweeter welcome, 
we will keep ourself Till supper time alone
While then, God be with you! 
Exeunt all but Macbeth and an Attendant
Sirrah, a word with you
Attend those men Our pleasure? 
They are, my lord, without the palace gate
Bring them before us
To be thus is nothing, 
But to be safely thus
Our fears in Banquo
Stick deep, and in his royalty of nature Reigns that which would be fear'd
'Tis much he dares, And, to that dauntless temper of his mind, 
He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor To act in safety
There is none but he Whose being I do fear; 
and under him My genius is rebuked, as it is said Mark Antony's was by Caesar
He chid the sisters When first they put the name of King upon me And bade them speak to him; 
then prophet-like They hail'd him father to a line of kings
Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown And put a barren sceptre in my gripe, Thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand, No son of mine succeeding
If't be so, 
For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind, 
For them the gracious Duncan have I murther'd, Put rancors in the vessel of my peace Only for them, 
and mine eternal jewel Given to the common enemy of man, To make them kings the seed of Banquo kings! 
Rather than so, come, Fate, into the list, And champion me to the utterance! Who's there?
Re-enter Attendant, with two Murtherers.
Now go to the door, 
and stay there till we call
Was it not yesterday we spoke together? 
It was, so please your Highness
Well then, now Have you consider'd of my speeches? 
Know That it was he in the times past which held you So under fortune, which you thought had been Our innocent self? 
This I made good to you In our last conference, pass'd in probation with you: How you were borne in hand, how cross'd, the instruments, Who wrought with them, 
and all things else that might To half a soul and to a notion crazed Say, "Thus did Banquo." FIRST MURTHERER
You made it known to us.
I did so, and went further, which is now Our point of second meeting
Do you find Your patience so predominant in your nature, 
That you can let this go? 
Are you so gospel'd, To pray for this good man and for his issue, 
Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave And beggar'd yours forever? 
We are men, my liege
Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men, 
As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs, Shoughs, waterrugs, and demi-wolves are clept All by the name of dogs
The valued file Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle, The housekeeper, the hunter, every one According to the gift which bounteous nature Hath in him closed, 
whereby he does receive Particular addition, from the bill That writes them all alike; and so of men
Now if you have a station in the file, 
Not i' the worst rank of manhood, say it, 
And I will put that business in your bosoms Whose execution takes your enemy off, Grapples you to the heart and love of us, 
Who wear our health but sickly in his life, Which in his death were perfect
I am one, my liege, Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world Have so incensed that I am reckless what I do to spite the world
And I another So weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune, 
That I would set my life on any chance, To mend it or be rid on't.
Both of you Know Banquo was your enemy
True, my lord
So is he mine, and in such bloody distance That every minute of his being thrusts Against my near'st of life; 
and though I could With barefaced power sweep him from my sight And bid my will avouch it, 
yet I must not, For certain friends that are both his and mine, Whose loves I may not drop, but wail his fall Who I myself struck down
And thence it is That I to your assistance do make love, 
Masking the business from the common eye For sundry weighty reasons
We shall, my lord, Perform what you command us
Though our lives
Your spirits shine through you
Within this hour at most I will advise you where to plant yourselves, 
Acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time, 
The moment on't; 
for't must be done tonight And something from the palace (always thought That I require a clearness); 
and with him- To leave no rubs nor botches in the work- Fleance his son, that keeps him company, 
Whose absence is no less material to me Than is his father's, must embrace the fate Of that dark hour
Resolve yourselves apart; 
I'll come to you anon
We are resolved, my lord
I'll call upon you straight
It is concluded:
Banquo, thy soul's flight, If it find heaven, must find it out tonight
Is Banquo gone from court? 
Ay, madam, but returns again tonight
Say to the King I would attend his leisure For a few words
Madam, I will
Nought's had, all's spent, Where our desire is got without content
'Tis safer to be that which we destroy Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy. 
How now, my lord? 
Why do you keep alone, Of sorriest fancies your companions making, Using those thoughts which should indeed have died With them they think on? 
Things without all remedy Should be without regard
What's done is done
We have scotch'd the snake, not kill'd it
She'll close and be herself, whilst our poor malice Remains in danger of her former tooth
But let the frame of things disjoint, both the worlds suffer, 
Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep In the affliction of these terrible dreams That shake us nightly
Better be with the dead, Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace, Than on the torture of the mind to lie In restless ecstasy
Duncan is in his grave; 
After life's fitful fever he sleeps well
Treason has done his worst; 
nor steel, nor poison, Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing, Can touch him further
Come on, Gentle my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks; 
Be bright and jovial among your guests tonight
So shall I, love, and so, I pray, be you
Let your remembrance apply to Banquo; 
Present him eminence, both with eye and tongue: Unsafe the while, that we Must lave our honors in these flattering streams,
And make our faces vizards to our hearts, Disguising what they are
You must leave this
O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife! 
Thou know'st that Banquo and his Fleance lives
But in them nature's copy's not eterne
There's comfort yet; 
they are assailable
Then be thou jocund
Ere the bat hath flown His cloister'd flight, ere to black Hecate's summons The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums Hath rung night's yawning peal, 
there shall be done A deed of dreadful note
What's to be done? 
Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck, Till thou applaud the deed
Come, seeling night, Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day, 
And with thy bloody and invisible hand Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond Which keeps me pale! 
Light thickens, and the crow Makes wing to the rooky wood; 
Good things of day begin to droop and drowse, Whiles night's black agents to their preys do rouse
Thou marvel'st at my words, but hold thee still: 
Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill
So, prithee, go with me
But who did bid thee join with us?
He needs not our mistrust, since he delivers Our offices and what we have to do To the direction just
Then stand with us
The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day; 
Now spurs the lated traveler apace To gain the timely inn, and near approaches The subject of our watch
Hark! I hear horses
Give us a light there, ho! 
Then 'tis he; 
the rest That are within the note of expectation Already are i' the court
His horses go about
Almost a mile, but he does usually- So all men do -from hence to the palace gate Make it their walk.
A light, a light!
It will be rain tonight
Let it come down
They set upon Banquo
O, treachery! Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly! Thou mayst revenge
O slave! Dies
Who did strike out the light? 
Wast not the way? 
There's but one down; 
the son is fled
We have lost Best half of our affair
Well, let's away and say how much is done
You know your own degrees; 
sit down
At first And last the hearty welcome
Thanks to your Majesty
Ourself will mingle with society And play the humble host
Our hostess keeps her state, but in best time We will require her welcome
Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends, For my heart speaks they are welcome.
See, they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks
Both sides are even; 
here I'll sit i' the midst
Be large in mirth; 
anon we'll drink a measure The table round
There's blood upon thy face
'Tis Banquo's then
'Tis better thee without than he within
Is he dispatch'd? 
My lord, his throat is cut; 
that I did for him
Thou art the best o' the cutthroats! 
Yet he's good That did the like for Fleance
If thou didst it, Thou art the nonpareil
Most royal sir, Fleance is 'scaped
Then comes my fit again
I had else been perfect, Whole as the marble, founded as the rock, As broad and general as the casing air; 
But now I am cabin'd, cribb'd, confin'd, bound in To saucy doubts and fears -But Banquo's safe? 
Ay, my good lord
Safe in a ditch he bides, With twenty trenched gashes on his head, The least a death to nature
Thanks for that
There the grown serpent lies; 
the worm that's fled Hath nature that in time will venom breed, No teeth for the present
Get thee gone
Tomorrow We'll hear ourselves again
My royal lord, You do not give the cheer
The feast is sold That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis amaking, 'Tis given with welcome
To feed were best at home; 
From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony; 
Meeting were bare without it
Sweet remembrancer! 
Now good digestion wait on appetite, And health on both! 
May't please your Highness sit.
The Ghost of Banquo enters and sits in Macbeth's place.
Here had we now our country's honor roof'd, Were the graced person of our Banquo present, 
Who may I rather challenge for unkindness Than pity for mischance! 
His absence, sir, Lays blame upon his promise
Please't your Highness To grace us with your royal company? 
The table's full
Here is a place reserved, sir
Here, my good lord
What is't that moves your Highness? 
Which of you have done this? 
What, my good lord? 
Thou canst not say I did it; 
never shake Thy gory locks at me
Gentlemen, rise; 
his Highness is not well
Sit, worthy friends; 
my lord is often thus, And hath been from his youth
Pray you, keep seat
The fit is momentary; 
upon a thought He will again be well
If much you note him, You shall offend him and extend his passion
Feed, and regard him not-Are you a man? 
Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that Which might appal the devil
O proper stuff! This is the very painting of your fear; 
This is the air-drawn dagger which you said Led you to Duncan
O,these flaws and starts, Impostors to true fear, would well become A woman's story at a winter's fire, Authorized by her grandam
Shame itself! 
Why do you make such faces? When all's done, You look but on a stool
Prithee, see there! Behold! Look! Lo! How say you? 
Why, what care I? If thou canst nod, speak too
If charnel houses and our graves must send Those that we bury back, our monuments Shall be the maws of kites
What, quite unmann'd in folly? 
If I stand here, I saw him
Fie, for shame! 
Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time, Ere humane statute purged the gentle weal; 
Ay, and since too, murthers have been perform'd Too terrible for the ear
The time has been, That, when the brains were out, the man would die, And there an end; 
but now they rise again, With twenty mortal murthers on their crowns, And push us from our stools
This is more strange Than such a murther is
My worthy lord, Your noble friends do lack you
I do forget
Do not muse at me, my most worthy friends
I have a strange infirmity, which is nothing To those that know me
Come, love and health to all; 
Then I'll sit down
Give me some wine, fill full
I drink to the general joy o' the whole table, 
And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss
Would he were here! 
To all and him we thirst, And all to all
Our duties and the pledge
Avaunt, and quit my sight! 
Let the earth hide thee! 
Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold; Thou hast no speculation in those eyes Which thou dost glare with
Think of this, good peers, But as a thing of custom
'Tis no other, Only it spoils the pleasure of the time
What man dare, I dare
Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear, The arm'd rhinoceros, or the Hyrcan tiger; 
Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves Shall never tremble
Or be alive again, And dare me to the desert with thy sword
If trembling I inhabit then, protest me The baby of a girl
Hence, horrible shadow! Unreal mockery, hence! Exit Ghost
Why, so, being gone, I am a man again
Pray you sit still
You have displaced the mirth, broke the good meeting, With most admired disorder
Can such things be, And overcome us like a summer's cloud, Without our special wonder? 
You make me strange Even to the disposition that I owe When now I think you can behold such sights And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks When mine is blanch'd with fear
What sights, my lord? 
I pray you, speak not; 
he grows worse and worse; 
Question enrages him
At once, good night
Stand not upon the order of your going, But go at once
Good night, and better health Attend his Majesty! 
A kind good night to all! 
Exeunt all but Macbeth and Lady Macbeth
It will have blood; 
they say blood will have blood
Stones have been known to move and trees to speak; 
Augures and understood relations have By maggot pies and choughs and rooks brought forth The secret'st man of blood
What is the night? 
Almost at odds with morning, which is which
How say'st thou, that Macduff denies his person At our great bidding?
Did you send to him, sir? 
I hear it by the way, but I will send
There's not a one of them but in his house I keep a servant feed
I will tomorrow, And betimes I will, to the weird sisters
More shall they speak; 
for now I am bent to know, By the worst means, the worst
For mine own good All causes shall give way
I am in blood Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more, Returning were as tedious as go o'er
Strange things I have in head that will to hand, Which must be acted ere they may be scann'd
You lack the season of all natures, sleep
Come, we'll to sleep
My strange and self-abuse Is the initiate fear that wants hard use
We are yet but young in deed
Why, how now, Hecate? 
You look angerly
Have I not reason, beldams as you are, Saucy and overbold? 
How did you dare To trade and traffic with Macbeth In riddles and affairs of death, 
And I, the mistress of your charms, The close contriver of all harms, Was never call'd to bear my part, Or show the glory of our art? 
And, which is worse, all you have done Hath been but for a wayward son, Spiteful and wrathful, who, as others do, Loves for his own ends, not for you
But make amends now
Get you gone, And at the pit of Acheron Meet me i' the morning
Thither he Will come to know his destiny
Your vessels and your spells provide, Your charms and everything beside
I am for the air; 
this night I'll spend Unto a dismal and a fatal end
Great business must be wrought ere noon: Upon the corner of the moon There hangs a vaporous drop profound; 
I'll catch it ere it come to ground
And that distill'd by magic sleights Shall raise such artificial sprites As by the strength of their illusion Shall draw him on to his confusion
He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear His hopes 'bove wisdom, grace, and fear
And you all know security Is mortals' chiefest enemy
Music and a song within, "Come away, come away." Hark!
I am call'd; 
my little spirit, see, Sits in a foggy cloud and stays for me
Come, let's make haste; 
she'll soon be back again
My former speeches have but hit your thoughts, Which can interpret farther; 
only I say Thing's have been strangely borne
The gracious Duncan Was pitied of Macbeth; 
marry, he was dead
And the right valiant Banquo walk'd too late, Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd, For Fleance fled
Men must not walk too late
Who cannot want the thought, how monstrous It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain To kill their gracious father? 
Damned fact! How it did grieve Macbeth! 
Did he not straight, In pious rage, the two delinquents tear That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep? 
Was not that nobly done? 
Ay, and wisely too, For 'twould have anger'd any heart alive To hear the men deny't
So that, I say, He has borne all things well; 
and I do think That, had he Duncan's sons under his key- As, an't please heaven, 
he shall not -they should find What 'twere to kill a father; 
so should Fleance
But, peace! 
For from broad words, and 'cause he fail'd His presence at the tyrant's feast, I hear, Macduff lives in disgrace
Sir, can you tell Where he bestows himself? 
The son of Duncan, From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth, Lives in the English court and is received Of the most pious Edward with such grace That the malevolence of fortune nothing Takes from his high respect
Thither Macduff Is gone to pray the holy King, upon his aid To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward; 
That by the help of these, with Him above To ratify the work, we may again Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights, 
Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives, 
Do faithful homage, and receive free honors- All which we pine for now
And this report Hath so exasperate the King that he Prepares for some attempt of war
Sent he to Macduff? 
He did, and with an absolute "Sir, not I," The cloudy messenger turns me his back, And hums, as who should say, "You'll rue the time That clogs me with this answer."
And that well might Advise him to a caution, to hold what distance His wisdom can provide
Some holy angel Fly to the court of England and unfold His message ere he come, 
that a swift blessing May soon return to this our suffering country Under a hand accursed! 
I'll send my prayers with him
O, well done! 
I commend your pains, And everyone shall share i' the gains
And now about the cauldron sing, Like elves and fairies in a ring, Enchanting all that you put in
Music and a song, "Black spirits." Hecate retires
By the pricking of my thumbs, Something wicked this way comes
Open, locks, Whoever knocks!
How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags? 
What is't you do? ALL
A deed without a name
I conjure you, by that which you profess (Howeer you come to know it) answer me: 
Though you untie the winds and let them fight Against the churches, 
though the yesty waves Confound and swallow navigation up, 
Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down, 
Though castles topple on their warders' heads, 
Though palaces and pyramids do slope Their heads to their foundations, 
though the treasure Of nature's germaines tumble all together Even till destruction sicken, answer me To what I ask you
Say, if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths, Or from our masters'? 
Call 'em, let me see 'em
Pour in sow's blood that hath eaten Her nine farrow; 
grease that's sweaten From the murtherer's gibbet throw Into the flame
Come, high or low; 
Thyself and office deftly show!
First Apparition: an armed Head.
Tell me, thou unknown power
He knows thy thought: Hear his speech, but say thou nought
Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! Beware Macduff, Beware the Thane of Fife
Whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks; Thou hast harp'd my fear aright
But one word more
He will not be commanded
Here's another, More potent than the first.
Second Apparition: a bloody Child
Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! MACBETH
Had I three ears, I'd hear thee
Be bloody, bold, and resolute: laugh to scorn The power of man, for none of woman born Shall harm Macbeth
Then live, Macduff
What need I fear of thee? 
But yet I'll make assurance double sure, And take a bond of fate: 
thou shalt not live, That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies, And sleep in spite of thunder.
Third Apparition: a Child crowned, with a tree in his hand.
What is this, That rises like the issue of a king, 
And wears upon his baby brow the round And top of sovereignty? 
Listen, but speak not to't
Be lion-mettled, proud, and take no care Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are
Macbeth shall never vanquish'd be until Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill Shall come against him
That will never be
Who can impress the forest, bid the tree Unfix his earth-bound root? 
Sweet bodements, good! 
Rebellion's head, rise never till the Wood Of Birnam rise, and our highplaced Macbeth Shall live the lease of nature, 
pay his breath To time and mortal custom
Yet my heart Throbs to know one thing: tell me, if your art Can tell so much, shall Banquo's issue ever Reign in this kingdom? 
Seek to know no more
I will be satisfied! 
Deny me this, And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know
Why sinks that cauldron, and what noise is this? 
Show! 
Show his eyes, and grieve his heart; 
Come like shadows, so depart!
A show of eight Kings, the last with a glass in his hand; 
Banquo's Ghost following.
Thou are too like the spirit of Banquo; 
down! Thy crown does sear mine eyeballs
And thy hair, Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first
A third is like the former
Filthy hags! 
Why do you show me this? A fourth! Start, eyes! 
What, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom? Another yet! 
A seventh! I'll see no more! And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass Which shows me many more; 
and some I see That twofold balls and treble sceptres carry
Horrible sight! 
Now I see 'tis true; For the blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles upon me, And points at them for his
What, is this so? 
Ay, sir, all this is so
But why Stands Macbeth thus amazedly? 
Come,sisters, cheer we up his sprites, And show the best of our delights
I'll charm the air to give a sound, While you perform your antic round, 
That this great King may kindly say Our duties did his welcome pay
The Witches dance and then vanish with Hecate
Where are they? Gone? 
Let this pernicious hour Stand ay accursed in the calendar! Come in, without there!
What's your Grace's will? 
Saw you the weird sisters? 
No, my lord
Came they not by you? 
No indeed, my lord
Infected be the air whereon they ride, And damn'd all those that trust them! 
I did hear The galloping of horse
Who wast came by? 
'Tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word Macduff is fled to England
Fled to England? 
Ay, my good lord
Time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits
The flighty purpose never is o'ertook Unless the deed go with it
From this moment The very firstlings of my heart shall be The firstlings of my hand
And even now, To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done: 
The castle of Macduff I will surprise, Seize upon Fife, give to the edge o' the sword His wife, his babes, 
and all unfortunate souls That trace him in his line
No boasting like a fool; 
This deed I'll do before this purpose cool
But no more sights! -Where are these gentlemen?
Come, bring me where they are
What had he done, to make him fly the land? 
You must have patience, madam
He had none; His flight was madness
When our actions do not, Our fears do make us traitors
You know not Whether it was his wisdom or his fear
Wisdom? To leave his wife, to leave his babes, His mansion, and his titles, in a place From whence himself does fly? 
He loves us not; He wants the natural touch; 
for the poor wren, The most diminutive of birds, will fight, Her young ones in her nest, against the owl
All is the fear and nothing is the love; 
As little is the wisdom, where the flight So runs against all reason
My dearest coz, I pray you, school yourself
But for your husband, He is noble, wise, Judicious, and best knows The fits o' the season
I dare not speak much further; 
But cruel are the times when we are traitors And do not know ourselves; 
when we hold rumor From what we fear, yet know not what we fear, But float upon a wild and violent sea Each way and move
I take my leave of you; Shall not be long but I'll be here again
Things at the worst will cease or else climb upward To what they were before
My pretty cousin, Blessing upon you! 
Father'd he is, and yet he's fatherless
I am so much a fool, should I stay longer, It would be my disgrace and your discomfort
I take my leave at once
Sirrah, your father's dead
And what will you do now? How will you live? 
As birds do, Mother
What, with worms and flies? 
With what I get, I mean; 
and so do they
Poor bird! Thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime, The pitfall nor the gin
Why should I, Mother? 
Poor birds they are not set for
My father is not dead, for all your saying
Yes, he is dead
How wilt thou do for father? 
Nay, how will you do for a husband? 
Why, I can buy me twenty at any market
Then you'll buy 'em to sell again
Thou speak'st with all thy wit, and yet, i' faith, With wit enough for thee
Was my father a traitor, Mother?
Ay, that he was
What is a traitor? 
Why one that swears and lies
And be all traitors that do so? 
Everyone that does so is a traitor and must be hanged
And must they all be hanged that swear and lie? 
Who must hang them? 
Why, the honest men
Then the liars and swearers are fools, for there are liars and swearers enow to beat the honest men and hang up them
Now, God help thee, poor monkey! 
But how wilt thou do for a father? 
If he were dead, you'ld weep for him; 
if you would not, it were a good sign that I should quickly have a new father
Poor prattler, how thou talk'st!
Bless you, fair dame! 
I am not to you known, Though in your state of honor I am perfect
I doubt some danger does approach you nearly
If you will take a homely man's advice, Be not found here; 
hence, with your little ones
To fright you thus, methinks I am too savage; 
To do worse to you were fell cruelty, Which is too nigh your person
Heaven preserve you! 
I dare abide no longer
Whither should I fly? 
I have done no harm
But I remember now I am in this earthly world, where to do harm Is often laudable, to do good sometime Accounted dangerous folly
Why then, alas, Do I put up that womanly defense, To say I have done no harm -What are these faces?
Where is your husband? 
I hope, in no place so unsanctified Where such as thou mayst find him
He's a traitor
Thou liest, thou shag-ear'd villain!
What, you egg! Stabs him
Young fry of treachery! 
He has kill'd me, Mother
Run away, I pray you! Dies.
Exit Lady Macduff, crying "Murther!" Exeunt Murtherers, following her.
Let us seek out some desolate shade and there Weep our sad bosoms empty
Let us rather Hold fast the mortal sword, and like good men Bestride our downfall'n birthdom
Each new morn New widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows Strike heaven on the face, 
that it resounds As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out Like syllable of dolor
What I believe, I'll wail; What know, believe; 
and what I can redress, As I shall find the time to friend, I will
What you have spoke, it may be so perchance
This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues, Was once thought honest
You have loved him well; He hath not touch'd you yet
I am young, but something You may deserve of him through me, and wisdom To offer up a weak, poor, innocent lamb To appease an angry god
I am not treacherous
But Macbeth is
A good and virtuous nature may recoil In an imperial charge
But I shall crave your pardon; 
That which you are, my thoughts cannot transpose
Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell
Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace, Yet grace must still look so
I have lost my hopes
Perchance even there where I did find my doubts
Why in that rawness left you wife and child, Those precious motives, those strong knots of love, Without leavetaking? 
I pray you, Let not my jealousies be your dishonors, But mine own safeties
You may be rightly just, Whatever I shall think
Bleed, bleed, poor country! 
Great tyranny, lay thou thy basis sure, For goodness dare not check thee
Wear thou thy wrongs; 
The title is affeer'd
Fare thee well, lord
I would not be the villain that thou think'st For the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp And the rich East to boot
Be not offended; 
I speak not as in absolute fear of you
I think our country sinks beneath the yoke; 
It weeps, it bleeds, and each new day a gash Is added to her wounds
I think withal There would be hands uplifted in my right; 
And here from gracious England have I offer Of goodly thousands
But for all this, When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head, Or wear it on my sword, 
yet my poor country Shall have more vices than it had before, More suffer and more sundry ways than ever, By him that shall succeed
What should he be? 
It is myself I mean, in whom I know All the particulars of vice so grafted That, 
when they shall be open'd, black Macbeth Will seem as pure as snow, 
and the poor state Esteem him as a lamb, being compared With my confineless harms
Not in the legions Of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd In evils to top Macbeth
I grant him bloody, Luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful, Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin That has a name
But there's no bottom, none, In my voluptuousness
Your wives, your daughters, Your matrons, and your maids could not fill up The cestern of my lust, 
and my desire All continent impediments would o'erbear That did oppose my will
Better Macbeth Than such an one to reign
Boundless intemperance In nature is a tyranny; 
it hath been The untimely emptying of the happy throne, And fall of many kings
But fear not yet To take upon you what is yours
You may Convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty And yet seem cold, the time you may so hoodwink
We have willing dames enough; 
there cannot be That vulture in you to devour so many As will to greatness dedicate themselves, Finding it so inclined
With this there grows In my most ill-composed affection such A stanchless avarice that, were I King, 
I should cut off the nobles for their lands, Desire his jewels and this other's house, 
And my more-having would be as a sauce To make me hunger more, 
that I should forge Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal, Destroying them for wealth
This avarice Sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root Than summer-seeming lust, 
and it hath been The sword of our slain kings
Yet do not fear; 
Scotland hath foisons to fill up your will Of your mere own
All these are portable, With other graces weigh'd
But I have none
The king-becoming graces, As justice, verity, temperance, stableness, Bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness, Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude, 
I have no relish of them, but abound In the division of each several crime, Acting it many ways
Nay, had I power, I should Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell, Uproar the universal peace, confound All unity on earth
Scotland, Scotland! 
If such a one be fit to govern, speak
I am as I have spoken
Fit to govern? 
No, not to live
O nation miserable! 
With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd, When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again, 
Since that the truest issue of thy throne By his own interdiction stands accursed And does blaspheme his breed? 
Thy royal father Was a most sainted king; the queen that bore thee, Oftener upon her knees than on her feet, Died every day she lived
Fare thee well! 
These evils thou repeat'st upon thyself Have banish'd me from Scotland
O my breast, Thy hope ends here! 
Macduff, this noble passion, Child of integrity, hath from my soul Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts To thy good truth and honor
Devilish Macbeth By many of these trains hath sought to win me Into his power, 
and modest wisdom plucks me From over-credulous haste
But God above Deal between thee and me! 
For even now I put myself to thy direction and Unspeak mine own detraction; 
here abjure The taints and blames I laid upon myself, For strangers to my nature
I am yet Unknown to woman, never was forsworn, 
Scarcely have coveted what was mine own, 
At no time broke my faith, would not betray The devil to his fellow, and delight No less in truth than life
My first false speaking Was this upon myself
What I am truly Is thine and my poor country's to command
Whither indeed, before thy hereapproach, Old Siward, with ten thousand warlike men Already at a point, was setting forth
Now we'll together, and the chance of goodness Be like our warranted quarrel! Why are you silent? MACDUFF
Such welcome and unwelcome things at once 'Tis hard to reconcile.
See, who comes here? 
My countryman, but yet I know him not
My ever gentle cousin, welcome hither
I know him now
Good God, betimes remove The means that makes us strangers!
Stands Scotland where it did? 
Alas, poor country, Almost afraid to know itself! 
It cannot Be call'd our mother, but our grave
Where nothing, But who knows nothing, is once seen to smile; 
Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air, Are made, not mark'd; 
where violent sorrow seems A modern ecstasy
The dead man's knell Is there scarce ask'd for who, 
and good men's lives Expire before the flowers in their caps, Dying or ere they sicken
O, relation Too nice, and yet too true! 
What's the newest grief? 
That of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker; 
Each minute teems a new one
How does my wife? 
And all my children? 
The tyrant has not batter'd at their peace? 
No, they were well at peace when I did leave 'em
Be not a niggard of your speech
How goest? 
When I came hither to transport the tidings, 
Which I have heavily borne, there ran a rumor Of many worthy fellows that were out, 
Which was to my belief witness'd the rather, For that I saw the tyrant's power afoot
Now is the time of help; 
your eye in Scotland Would create soldiers, make our women fight, To doff their dire distresses
Be't their comfort We are coming thither
Gracious England hath Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men; 
An older and a better soldier none That Christendom gives out
Would I could answer This comfort with the like! 
But I have words That would be howl'd out in the desert air, Where hearing should not latch them
What concern they? 
The general cause? Or is it a fee-grief Due to some single breast? 
No mind that's honest But in it shares some woe, though the main part Pertains to you alone
If it be mine, Keep it not from me, quickly let me have it
Let not your ears despise my tongue forever, Which shall possess them with the heaviest sound That ever yet they heard
Humh! I guess at it
Your castle is surprised; 
your wife and babes Savagely slaughter'd
To relate the manner Were, on the quarry of these murther'd deer, To add the death of you
Merciful heaven! 
What, man! Neer pull your hat upon your brows; 
Give sorrow words
The grief that does not speak Whispers the o'erfraught heart, and bids it break
My children too? 
Wife, children, servants, all That could be found
And I must be from thence! 
My wife kill'd too? 
I have said
Let's make us medicines of our great revenge, To cure this deadly grief
He has no children
All my pretty ones? Did you say all? O hell-kite! 
All? What, all my pretty chickens and their dam At one fell swoop? 
Dispute it like a man
I shall do so, But I must also feel it as a man
I cannot but remember such things were That were most precious to me
Did heaven look on, And would not take their part? Sinful Macduff, They were all struck for thee! 
Naught that I am, Not for their own demerits, but for mine, Fell slaughter on their souls
Heaven rest them now! 
Be this the whetstone of your sword
Let grief Convert to anger; 
blunt not the heart, enrage it
O, I could play the woman with mine eyes And braggart with my tongue! 
But, gentle heavens, Cut short all intermission; 
front to front Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself; 
Within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape, Heaven forgive him too! 
This tune goes manly
Come, go we to the King; 
our power is ready, Our lack is nothing but our leave
Macbeth Is ripe for shaking, and the powers above Put on their instruments
Receive what cheer you may, The night is long that never finds the day
I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive no truth in your report
When was it she last walked? 
Since his Majesty went into the field, 
I have seen her rise from her bed, throw her nightgown upon her, unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it, write upon't, read it, afterwards seal it, 
and again return to bed; 
yet all this while in a most fast sleep
A great perturbation in nature, to receive at once the benefit of sleep and do the effects of watching! 
In this slumbery agitation, besides her walking and other actual performances, what, at any time, have you heard her say? 
That, sir, which I will not report after her
You may to me, and 'tis most meet you should
Neither to you nor anyone, having no witness to confirm my speech.
 Lo you, here she comes! 
 This is her very guise, and, upon my life, fast asleep
Observe her; stand close
How came she by that light? 
Why, it stood by her
She has light by her continually; 'tis her command
You see, her eyes are open
Ay, but their sense is shut
What is it she does now? 
Look how she rubs her hands
It is an accustomed action with her, to seem thus washing her hands
I have known her continue in this a quarter of an hour
Yet here's a spot
Hark, she speaks! 
I will set down what comes from her, to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly
Out, damned spot! 
Out, I say! One- two -why then 'tis time to do't
Hell is murky
Fie, my lord, fie! A soldier, and afeard? 
What need we fear who knows it, when none can call our power to account? 
Yet who would have thought the old man to have had so much blood in him? 
Do you mark that? 
The Thane of Fife had a wife; 
where is she now? 
What, will these hands neer be clean? 
No more o' that, my lord, no more o' that
You mar all with this starting
Go to, go to; you have known what you should not
She has spoke what she should not, I am sure of that
Heaven knows what she has known
Here's the smell of the blood still
All the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand
Oh, oh, oh! 
What a sigh is there! 
The heart is sorely charged
I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body
Well, well, well
Pray God it be, sir
This disease is beyond my practice
Yet I have known those which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their beds
Wash your hands, put on your nightgown, look not so pale
I tell you yet again, Banquo's buried; 
he cannot come out on's grave
Even so? 
To bed, to bed; 
there's knocking at the gate
Come, come, come, come, give me your hand.What's done cannot be undone
To bed, to bed, to bed
Will she go now to bed? 
Foul whisperings are abroad
Unnatural deeds Do breed unnatural troubles; 
infected minds To their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets
More needs she the divine than the physician
God, God, forgive us all! 
Look after her; Remove from her the means of all annoyance, And still keep eyes upon her
So good night
My mind she has mated and amazed my sight
I think, but dare not speak.
The English power is near, led on by Malcolm, His uncle Siward, and the good Macduff
Revenges burn in them, for their dear causes Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm Excite the mortified man
Near Birnam Wood Shall we well meet them; 
that way are they coming
Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother? 
For certain, sir, he is not;
I have a file Of all the gentry
There is Seward's son And many unrough youths that even now Protest their first of manhood
What does the tyrant? 
Dunsinane he strongly fortifies
Some say he's mad; 
others, that lesser hate him, Do call it valiant fury; 
but, for certain, He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause Within the belt of rule
Now does he feel His secret murthers sticking on his hands, 
Now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach; 
Those he commands move only in command, Nothing in love
Now does he feel his title Hang loose about him, like a giant's robe Upon a dwarfish thief
Who then shall blame His pester'd senses to recoil and start, When all that is within him does condemn Itself for being there? 
Well, march we on To give obedience where 'tis truly owed
Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal, And with him pour we, in our country's purge, Each drop of us
Or so much as it needs To dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds
Make we our march towards Birnam
Bring me no more reports; 
let them fly all! Till Birnam Wood remove to Dunsinane I cannot taint with fear
What's the boy Malcolm? 
Was he not born of woman? 
The spirits that know All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus: "Fear not, Macbeth; no man that's born of woman Shall e'er have power upon thee." 
Then fly, false Thanes, And mingle with the English epicures! 
The mind I sway by and the heart I bear Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear.
The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon! 
Where got'st thou that goose look? 
There is ten thousand- 
Geese, villain? 
Go prick thy face and overred thy fear, Thou lily-liver'd boy
What soldiers, patch? Death of thy soul! 
Those linen cheeks of thine Are counselors to fear
What soldiers, wheyface? 
The English force, so please you
Take thy face hence
Seyton-I am sick at heart, 
When I behold- Seyton, I say!- This push Will chair me ever or disseat me now
I have lived long enough
My way of life Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf, 
And that which should accompany old age, As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends, I must not look to have; 
but in their stead, Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honor, breath, Which the poor heart would fain deny and dare not
Cousins, I hope the days are near at hand That chambers will be safe
We doubt it nothing
What wood is this before us? 
The Wood of Birnam
Let every soldier hew him down a bough, And bear't before him; 
thereby shall we shadow The numbers of our host, and make discovery Err in report of us
It shall be done
We learn no other but the confident tyrant Keeps still in Dunsinane and will endure Our setting down before't
'Tis his main hope; 
For where there is advantage to be given, 
Both more and less have given him the revolt, 
And none serve with him but constrained things Whose hearts are absent too
Let our just censures Attend the true event, 
and put we on Industrious soldiership
The time approaches That will with due decision make us know What we shall say we have and what we owe
Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate, But certain issue strokes must arbitrate
Towards which advance the war
Hang out our banners on the outward walls; 
The cry is still, "They come!" Our castle's strength Will laugh a siege to scorn
Here let them lie Till famine and the ague eat them up
Were they not forced with those that should be ours, 
We might have met them dareful, beard to beard, And beat them backward home
A cry of women within
What is that noise? 
It is the cry of women, my good lord
I have almost forgot the taste of fears: 
The time has been, my senses would have cool'd To hear a night-shriek, and my fell of hair Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir As life were in't
I have supp'd full with horrors; 
Direness, familiar to my slaughterous thoughts, Cannot once start me.
Wherefore was that cry? 
The Queen, my lord, is dead
She should have died hereafter; 
There would have been a time for such a word
Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow Creeps in this petty pace from day to day To the last syllable of recorded time; 
And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death
Out, out, brief candle! 
Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player That struts and frets his hour upon the stage And then is heard no more
It is a tale Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing.
Thou comest to use thy tongue; 
thy story quickly
Gracious my lord, I should report that which I say I saw, 
But know not how to do it
Well, say, sir
As I did stand my watch upon the hill, 
I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought, 
The Wood began to move
Liar and slave! 
Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so
Within this three mile may you see it coming; 
I say, a moving grove
If thou speak'st false, Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive, Till famine cling thee; 
if thy speech be sooth, I care not if thou dost for me as much
I pull in resolution and begin To doubt the equivocation of the fiend That lies like truth
"Fear not, till Birnam Wood Do come to Dunsinane," 
and now a wood Comes toward Dunsinane
Arm, arm, and out! 
If this which he avouches does appear, There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here
I 'gin to be aweary of the sun And wish the estate o' the world were now undone
Ring the alarum bell! Blow, wind! Come, wrack! 
At least we'll die with harness on our back.
Now near enough; 
your leavy screens throw down, 
And show like those you are
You, worthy uncle, Shall with my cousin, your right noble son, Lead our first battle
Worthy Macduff and we Shall take upon 's what else remains to do, According to our order
Fare you well
Do we but find the tyrant's power tonight, Let us be beaten if we cannot fight
Make all our trumpets speak, give them all breath, 
Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death
They have tied me to a stake; 
I cannot fly, But bear-like I must fight the course
What's he That was not born of woman? 
Such a one Am I to fear, or none
Enter young Siward.
What is thy name? 
Thou'lt be afraid to hear it
No, though thou call'st thyself a hotter name Than any is in hell
My name's Macbeth
The devil himself could not pronounce a title More hateful to mine ear
No, nor more fearful
Thou liest, abhorred tyrant; 
with my sword I'll prove the lie thou speak'st
They fight, and young Seward is slain
Thou wast born of woman
But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn, Brandish'd by man that's of a woman born
That way the noise is
Tyrant, show thy face! 
If thou best slain and with no stroke of mine, 
My wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still
I cannot strike at wretched kerns, whose arms Are hired to bear their staves
Either thou, Macbeth, Or else my sword, with an unbatter'd edge, 
I sheathe again undeeded
There thou shouldst be; 
By this great clatter, one of greatest note Seems bruited
Let me find him, Fortune! 
And more I beg not
Why should I play the Roman fool and die On mine own sword? 
Whiles I see lives, the gashes Do better upon them.
Turn, hell hound, turn! 
Of all men else I have avoided thee
But get thee back, my soul is too much charged With blood of thine already
I have no words
My voice is in my sword, thou bloodier villain Than terms can give thee out! 
They fight
Thou losest labor
As easy mayst thou the intrenchant air With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed
Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests; 
I bear a charmed life, which must not yield To one of woman born
Despair thy charm, 
And let the angel whom thou still hast served Tell thee, 
Macduff was from his mother's womb Untimely ripp'd
Accursed be that tongue that tells me so, 
For it hath cow'd my better part of man! 
And be these juggling fiends no more believed That patter with us in a double sense, 
That keep the word of promise to our ear And break it to our hope
I'll not fight with thee
Then yield thee, coward, 
And live to be the show and gaze o' the time
We'll have thee, as our rarer monsters are, Painted upon a pole, and underwrit, "Here may you see the tyrant." 
I will not yield, To kiss the ground before young Malcolm's feet, 
And to be baited with the rabble's curse
Though Birnam Wood be come to Dunsinane, 
And thou opposed, being of no woman born, 
Yet I will try the last
Before my body I throw my warlike shield! Lay on, Macduff,
 And damn'd be him that first cries, "Hold, enough!" Exeunt fighting
Enter, with drum and colors, Malcolm, old Siward, Ross, the other Thanes, and Soldiers.
I would the friends we miss were safe arrived
Some must go off, and yet, by these I see, So great a day as this is cheaply bought
Macduff is missing, and your noble son
Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt
He only lived but till he was a man, The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd In the unshrinking station where he fought, 
But like a man he died
Then he is dead? 
Ay, and brought off the field
Your cause of sorrow Must not be measured by his worth, for then It hath no end
Had he his hurts before? 
Ay, on the front
Why then, God's soldier be he! 
Had I as many sons as I have hairs, 
I would not wish them to a fairer death
And so his knell is knoll'd
He's worth more sorrow, 
And that I'll spend for him
He's worth no more: 
They say he parted well and paid his score, And so God be with him! 
Here comes newer comfort.
Re-enter Macduff, with Macbeth's head.
Hail, King, for so thou art
Behold where stands The usurper's cursed head
The time is free
I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl That speak my salutation in their minds, 
Whose voices I desire aloud with mine- Hail, King of Scotland! 
Hail, King of Scotland! 
We shall not spend a large expense of time Before we reckon with your several loves And make us even with you
My Thanes and kinsmen, Henceforth be Earls, the first that ever Scotland In such an honor named
What's more to do, Which would be planted newly with the time, 
As calling home our exiled friends abroad That fled the snares of watchful tyranny, 
Producing forth the cruel ministers Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen, 
Who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands Took off her life; 
this, and what needful else That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace We will perform in measure, time, and place
So thanks to all at once and to each one, Whom we invite to see us crown'd at Scone
Good morning.
Good morning, mom.
Did the alarm clock go off?
Did the alarm clock buzz?
Did the alarm clock ring?
It's time to get up!
It's time to get up! 
I don't wanna get up.
It's time to wake up!
It's time to get out of bed.
It's time to get ready.
Get up soon.
Get up soon.
I don't want to.
Are you awake?
I am now.
Are you feeling sick?
No, I'm just tired.
Did you sleep well?
Yes, I slept very well.
Did you sleep well?
No, I couldn't fall asleep.
Would you turn off the alarm clock?
Please turn off the alarm clock.
You finally got up.
I'm still sleepy.
It's a nice day! 
It sure is.
It's a beautiful day!
It's a wonderful day!
It's a great day!
Did you stay up late last night?
Did you go to bed late last night?
Let's fold up the futon.
Let's put the futon away.
You were snoring last night.
Did I keep you up?
You were sawing logs last night.
I had a nightmare.
It's all right now.
You left the light on.
You forgot to turn off the light.
I have to go wash my face.
It's time to eat breakfast.
It's time to have breakfast.
I'm still sleepy.
I'm still drowsy.
I'm still yawning.
I have a hangover.
I'm a night person.
I'm not.
Coffee wakes me up.
Coffee gets me going.
Did you brush your teeth?
Have you brushed your teeth?
I have to comb my hair.
What should I wear?
The red one.
Which dress should I wear?
Which one should I wear?
What should I put on?
Hurry up and get dressed.
Why?
Put those pajamas away! 
Oh, I'm washing those.
I'm leaving.Bye mom!
Study hard.
I'll see you when I get back.
I'm taking off now.
See you.
See you later.
Let's play hooky today! 
Yeah, let's.
You're wearing your sweater inside out.
You have your sweater on inside out.
It's upside down.
Don't forget to take out the garbage.
I won't.
It's your turn to take out the garbage.
What are you doing today?
We're having a track and field meet.
If you don't hurry, we'll be late.
Okay, Okay.
Hurry up or we'll be late.
Hurry or you'll be late for school.
What time is it?
Did you lock the door?
Have you locked the door?
Aren't you forgetting something?
I don't think so.
It's already 8oclock.
It's 8oclock already.
I'm late!
Hurry up! 
I have to rush!
I have to hurry (up)!
I have to get going!
I have to get moving.
Are you gonna be late today?
No, I'll be home at the usual time.
What time are you coming home?
Around seven o'clock.
Have you got your lunch box?
Yes, right here.
It might rain today.
Take your umbrella with you.
Don't forget to lock the door when you leave.
I'm home.
Welcome back.
I'm back!
Welcome home!
Welcome back!
Did you have a good time?
How did it go today?
How was your day?
Can I go out to play?
After you finish your homework.
I'm hungry.
We have some snacks.
Where are the snacks?
They're in the cupboard.
I'm going to cram school now.
Call when you finish.
May I have my allowance?
What do you want to buy?
I'm tired.
I'm exhausted.
I'm pooped.
What would you like for dinner?
How about steak?
What do you want for dinner?
What do you want to eat for dinner?
Would you help me set the table?
I'd be happy to.
Help me set up the table, will you?
What should I make for dinner?
What should I whip up for dinner?
What should I cook for dinner?
What should I fix for dinner?
It's good to be home.
There's no place like home.
It feels so good to be home.
Would you run to the store?
In just a minute.
The bath is ready.
It's been a long day.
The bath is ready.
I'm taking a shower.
I'm going to take a shower.
Is dinner ready?
Not yet.
Is it time for dinner yet?
Have you made dinner?
Mom, what's for dinner tonight?
Mom, what did you make for dinner?
Mom, what did you fix for dinner?
What's for dinner?
Salisbury steak.
Great! 
Today, we're having curry.
We're having curry today.
How soon can you get it ready?
In about five more minutes.
When will it be ready?
How soon will it be done?
Let's eat.
Shall we begin?
Please go ahead.
Please help yourself.
This knife cuts well, doesn't it?
It sure does.
The water is boiling!
OK
Come and get it! 
It's time for dinner! 
Breakfast/Lunch/Dinner is ready! 
It's time to eat.
Finally.
I'm coming.
I'll be right there.
I'm on my way.
Did you wash your hands well?
Yes.
Don't spill it!
Don't tip it over.
Eat all of your vegetables.
Finish your vegetables.
Finish up your vegetables.
Finish up your plate.
Finish up your plate.
I'm trying to.
I don't like asparagus.
Don't be picky.
It was very delicious.
 Thank you.
It was a wonderful dinner.
Would you clear the table?
Would you put the dishes away?
Do the dishes! 
I will.
It's not my turn.
Wash the dishes!
I'll dry the dishes.
What are you doing?
I'm watching TV.
Are there any good programs on TV?
No, not today.
Nomo is on TV.
What's on Channel 8?
Would you change the channel?
Would you switch the channel?
Would you change the station?
I want to watch more TV.
You've watched enough for tonight.
Let's spread out the futon.
Let's get the futon out.
I'm sleepy.
Why don't you take a nap?
I'm drowsy.
Did you do your homework?
Study hard.
I am.
Hurry up and go to sleep.
Enough with your video games.
I can't quit now.
Make sure you brush your teeth.
I will.
Are you ready for tomorrow?
No, not yet.
I'm going to take a bath.
Make sure you wash up well.
Time to go to sleep.
Just a minute.
You left the TV on.
Sorry about that.
You forgot to turn the TV off.
Don't leave your stuff here.
I won't.
I set the alarm clock for 8oclock.
I set it for 8oclock.
Wake me up at seven tomorrow.
Sure thing.
Good night.
Sweet dreams.
Sweet dreams! 
Don't let the bedbugs bite.
Have pleasant dreams.
I want to take a nap.
But you just woke up.
I want to take a catnap.
I'd like to lie down for a while.
I'm going to lie down.
I'm going to take a rest.
You're pretending to be asleep.
You're just pretending that you're asleep.
You're not really asleep.
I know you're still awake.
Were you sleeping?
Were you asleep?
No, I was awake.
Will you change the baby's diaper?
Again?
Will you change the baby's diaper?
I just changed it ten minutes ago.
Do you need to pee?
It's time to go wee-wee.
It's time to go pee-pee.
Peekaboo! 
Peekaboo! 
Do it again.
Kuchi-kuchi-koo.
Let's play catch.
Great! 
Let's play ball.
The water is leaking.
The pipe is leaking.
It's so dusty.
I didn't notice.
It needs to be dusted.
It's stuffy in this room.
The air is thick.
I can't breathe in this room.
The air is dense.
It's drafty in this room.
Will you feed the dog?
Please give the dog some food.
Will you take the dog for a walk?
Take care of my brother and sister.
You bet.
Please water the plants.
Can I help?
Yes, please water the plants.
What a mess! 
Look at the mess!
What a pigsty! 
Help me.
What do you want me to do?
Clean up your room.
But I'm watching TV now.
Straighten up your room.
Tidy up the room.
Help me clean up the house.
We're out of dish detergent.
I'll go get more.
Would you put up the clothes to dry?
Will you help me fold up the clothes?
Please sweep the floor.
Please scrub the sink.
I have to vacuum my room.
Please dust the shelves.
Please mop the floor.
Will you iron the shirt?
I have to iron my skirt.
Let's go grocery shopping.
We need more milk.
Let's go grocery shopping.
The park was crowded.
The park was filled with people.
Can you baby-sit tonight?
Sure I can.
This is for you.
That's very nice of you.
Here's something for you.
I got this for you.
This is your share.
This is your portion.
This is your part.
This portion is for you.
What do you want for your birthday?
I want gloves.
Ta-dah! 
Here you are! 
Here you have it!
I usually work out after work.
I usually go to the gym after work.
I usually exercise after work.
I've started jogging.
Since when?
I quit smoking.
No, thanks. I quit smoking.
Good for you.
I stopped smoking.
I don't smoke anymore.
I've become a non-smoker.
I no longer smoke.
Do you dream often?
Do you often have dreams?
Do you dream a lot?
I've been forgetful lately.
I've been forgetful these days.
When is this due?
Here's the phone bill.
When is this due?
When is the rent due?
When is the paper due?
When is the last day I can pay for this?
How long is the pay period?
When do I have to pay this by?
When does this have to be finished by?
It's due on the thirtieth.
Could you give me change?
Can you change this?
Could I have change?
Do you have change for one hundred yen?
Do you have change for one hundred yen?
Sure.
Can you change this?
Can you break a one-hundred-yen bill?
Can you break a hundred?
I'd like to change a hundred-yen note.
Here's one hundred yen. Could I have change?
I need to deposit five thousand yen (in my savings account).
I need to put £¤5,000 into the bank.
I need to withdraw £¤5,000 (from my savings account).
I need to take out £¤5,000 from the bank.
I paid out of my own pocket.
I'm out of cash.
I don't have much money on me now.
May I borrow some money?
I don't have much money on me now.
I didn't bring very much money with me.
I'm a little short of money now.
I'm broke.
May I borrow ten dollars?
Sorry, I'm broke.
I have no money.
I'm out of money.
I'm flat broke.
I have a lot of money on me now.
I brought a lot of money with me.
I'm rich now.
I'm rolling in it.
I have lots of cash on me.
I can't afford to be lazy.
I can't afford to be idle.
I don't have time to be lazy.
What a waste! 
How wasteful!
He didn't pay the debt and disappeared.
He skipped town without paying his debt.
Are you free this weekend?
Are you free this weekend?
Yes, I am.
Could I see you again?
Could you give me your phone number?
Where shall we meet?
Where shall I meet you?
Shall I come to pick you up?
Are you doing anything this afternoon?
No, nothing special.
Yes, I have to work.
Do you have plans for this afternoon?
Are you busy this afternoon?
How about having dinner with me?
Sounds great! 
How about dinner?
Let's have dinner together.
Why don't we go to see a baseball game?
Why don't we .
Yeah! 
Let's go see a baseball game!
Sorry, I'm tied up.
Sorry, I have plans.
Sorry, I'm busy.
I'm sorry, but I have other plans.
I'm afraid I can't.
I'm sorry but I can't.
Thanks for asking, but.
Let's go out for a drink.
Thanks for asking, but I already made plans.
Thanks for the invitation, but.
How about a rain check?
Let's do it another time.
Could we plan it for another day?
Some other time.
I hope you can come.
When is it convenient for you?
When is it convenient for you?
I'm free on Friday.
What is a good time for you?
When is good for you?
About what time?
Whenever.
Jack, what time do you want to go bowling?
Whenever. I'm free all day.
Whenever you are free.
Any day is okay.
Any day of the week is fine.
Anytime is fine.
When you have time.
I'm free today.
I have a lot of free time today.
I have nothing to do today.
I'll be busy tomorrow.
How about tomorrow?
Sorry, I'll be busy tomorrow.
How about the tenth?
When are you free?
When should we go?
Friday after 3oclock.
When are you available?
That's a bad day for me.
That day is fine.
When can I come over?
When can I visit?
When can I stop by?
When can I drop by?
You decide when.
I'll leave it up to you.
It's your decision.
You decide where.
Wherever you want is okay.
Is seven convenient for you?
When should I come?
Is seven convenient for you?
Is seven okay for you?
When can you come over?
What time can you make it?
Is it too early?
Is it too late?
It's a date.
Okay, see you then.
Let's meet tomorrow at 7¡Ã30.
It's a date.
See you then.
Are you ready?
No, not yet.
Ready yet?
Are you all set?
Ready.
I'm ready.
I'm all set.
I'm not ready.
Ready.
What time shall we leave?
In about ten minutes.
What time do you want to leave?
What time do we leave?
What time are we taking off?
What time do we arrive?
When do we get there?
Let's get going.
I'll be ready in five minutes.
Let's go.
Let's take off.
Shall we go?
Okay, let's go.
Let's hit the road! 
Would you like to go to a movie?
Sure, I'd love to.
What do you say to going to a movie?
What's on tonight?
What's playing tonight?
What are you showing tonight?
What movie do you want to see?
I want to see.
Where is.     playing?
How long is.   playing?
Who is in this movie?
How long does it last?
How long will it last?
How long is it?
What time is the next showing?
When is the next showing?
What time will it be over?
What time will it end?
Two, please.
Two tickets, please.
Two adults, please.
I can't see because of the person in front of me.
That person is blocking my view.
That person is in my way.
We are way in the back, aren't we?
Let's sit closer up front.
That was interesting, wasn't it?
It sure was.
That was boring, wasn't it?
That was dull, wasn't it?
I was moved.
How was the ballet?
I was moved.
It touched me.
It was a touching movie.
I'd like two tickets for October 3rd, please.
Sorry, we're sold out.
Do you have any tickets for the concert?
Sorry, we're sold out.
When do you have tickets?
Which date do you have tickets for?
What time does it start?
What time does it begin?
Can I make a reservation?
Where can I buy a ticket?
At that counter.
Is this seat taken?
No, it's not.
Is anyone sitting here?
Can I sit here?
Do you mind if I sit here?
Is this seat free?
We have great seats, don't we?
Encore!
Bravo, bravo!
Go for it,.
Yeah.
Go.
I'd like to play golf.
Who would you like to play with?
Would you like to golf tomorrow?
I'd like to.
How would you like to play golf tomorrow?
Do you want to play golf tomorrow?
Would you be interested in playing golf tomorrow?
Do you want to join me?
Would you like to play golf with me?
Are there any golf courses around here?
How much is it per person?
How much is it per day?
Are there any extra charges?
Is there any extra charge?
Can I rent the equipment?
Please make a reservation for golf.
Would you make a reservation for golf?
I'd like to make golf reservations.
When would you like to play?
When do you want to play?
This Friday, if possible.
There are four of us.
Four.
What time are we starting?
How about a drink?
That's a great idea.
I need a drink.
Would you like to have a drink after work?
I'm afraid I'm busy tonight.
Do you have any beer?
Sure.What kind do you want?
Two bottles of beer, please.
Two beers, please.
One whiskey with water, please.
What kind of snacks should we have?
I'll leave it up to you.
Let's forget about work and have some fun.
Let's get our minds off of work and have a good time.
Let's take our minds off of work.
Cheers!
Bottoms up!
What are you drinking?
I like to go barhopping.
The first sip is the best! 
The first taste is the greatest!
The first gulp is the best! 
Nothing beats this! 
Would you like a refill?
Would you like more?
How about a refill?
Would you like one more?
Would you like another cup?
Another beer, please.
One more beer, please.
This whiskey is strong.
How do you like sake?
It's strong.
I'm drunk.
Let me drive you home.
I feel a little tipsy.
I'm slightly drunk.
I'm loaded.
I'm wasted.
Drink moderately.
Don't overdo it.
Please don't drink too much.
I get drunk easily.
I get drunk quickly.
I'm a heavy drinker.
I drank too much.
I had too much to drink.
I should have drunk less.
I shouldn't have drunk this much.
I have a hangover.
Let's go to karaoke.
Sorry, I'm tone-deaf.
What is karaoke?
Singing along with recorded music.
Are you good at singing?
I'd like to request a song.
You sing first.
Go ahead.
After you.
Let's enjoy ourselves.
How about a song, John?
What are you going to sing?
Let's sing a duet.
Now it's my turn.
It's finally my turn.
I don't have the nerve to sing in front of people.
I don't have the guts to sing in front of people.
I can't keep up with the new songs.
I can't keep track of the new music.
I can't learn the new songs fast enough.
I'm tone-deaf.
I have no ear for music.
My singing is out of tune.
What's your karaoke specialty?
What's your best song?
Which songs do you sing the best?
I've never heard of that song.
Do you know that song?
No, I've never heard of that song.
You're a good singer!
You sing very well!
Well done! 
Good job! 
Do you need a doctor?
Yes, I think so.
Do you want me to get a doctor?
Do you need any help?
Please call an ambulance.
We need an ambulance now.
Please get an ambulance.
I'd like to see a doctor.
I'm not feeling well.
Could you send me a doctor?
What's wrong with you?
What's the matter?
Is anything wrong?
What are your symptoms?
Let me check your temperature.
Did you eat something unusual?
Let me check your blood pressure.
Are you taking any medication regularly?
I'm not taking any medication.
Is that so?
What's wrong with me?
Is it serious?
Are you feeling okay?
Do you feel all right?
What's wrong?
I'm not feeling well.
Is anything wrong?
Are you okay?
What's the matter?
Is everything all right?
You look pale.
 Are you okay?
I guess I'm just tired.
You don't look well.
I don't feel well.
Please sit down for a while.
I'm not feeling well.
You don't look well.
I have a cold.
She passed out.
I feel sick.
I don't feel well.
I feel bad.
I have a stomachache.
How long have you had it?
Did you eat too much?
My stomach hurts.
I have a dull pain.
I have a sharp pain.
I have a throbbing pain.
I have a piercing pain.
I have a stabbing pain.
I have diarrhea.
I have food poisoning.
I have high/low blood pressure.
I have a headache.
What happened, sir?
I have a headache.
My head hurts.
My head is pounding.
I have a splitting headache.
I have a toothache.
When did it start?
My tooth hurts.
My tooth is killing me.
I feel dizzy.
I feel sluggish.
I feel tired.
I don't have any appetite.
You should eat something.
I don't have much of an appetite these days.
I have a slight cold.
I feel chilly.
Here, wear my jacket.
I have a bad cold
I have a stuffy nose.
I have a runny nose.
My nose is running.
My nose won't stop running.
I have a bit of a fever.
I think I have a fever.
Let's check.
I have a high temperature.
I feel like throwing up.
I feel nauseous.
Ouch! 
Be careful! 
Ow!
It hurts!
It's itchy.
Ahchoo!
Bless you.
I broke my leg.
What happened?
How long will the cast be on?
One more month.
I burned my hand.
How did you burn your hand?
I sprained my ankle.
How?
I sprained it playing golf.
I twisted my ankle.
Well, I can call for help.
I caught a cold from you.
I must stay in bed.
I have stiff shoulders.
My shoulders are stiff.
My eyes are tired.
Is somebody hurt?
My fever has gone down.
I can't stop coughing.
My throat's sore.
I have a sore throat.
It's bleeding.
I've got a cut here.
I have a cut here.
It hurts.
I got stung by a bee.
Do I need an operation?
I don't think that will be necessary.
Will I have to have an operation?
Will it take long?
Can I take a bath?
Can I bathe?
Is it okay to drink?
Is it all right to drink?
May I drink?
Should I be hospitalized?
Do you have a fever?
I don't know. I don't have a thermometer.
Do you have a high temperature?
I feel better.
How do you feel?
I feel better now.
 Thank you.
I don't feel any better.
I still don't feel well.
Are you alright again?
Are you well again?
Are you yourself again?
Are you back to normal again?
He passed away.
Tom is a lady-killer.
Tom dates around a lot.
Tom is a real playboy.
Tom really turns me on.
I didn't know you felt that way.
I'm crazy about Tom.
I have strong feelings for Tom.
I love Tom.
I have the hots for Tom.
Chris is really a heartbreaker.
Chris breaks a lot of hearts.
Chris dates a lot of women.
Janet is a knockout.
You can say that again! 
Janet is sexy.
Janet is beautiful.
I think he has a crush on you.
Give me a break.
I think he is infatuated with you.
I think he likes you.
Jane seems to like me.
I've got the feeling that Jane likes me.
I think Jane likes me.
I have a hunch (that) Jane likes me.
Diana's been coming on to Jack.
I can't handle a girl like her.
She's too much for me.
I'm dying to see her.
I'm trying to make a pass at her.
I don't blame you.
I'm trying to pick her up.
I'm trying to get a date with her.
You broke my heart.
I didn't mean to.
Are you free tonight?
Yes.
 Why?
Do you have plans tonight?
Are you available tonight?
Are you busy tonight?
Do you want to go out with me tonight?
Let's go out tonight.
If you're free, why don't we go out tonight?
Would you like to go to the movies with me?
I'd love to.
Let's have tea or something.
Let's have something to drink.
How about having a cup of tea?
Please keep me company for a while.
I'd like to invite you to a show.
Would you like to go to a show with me?
May I ask you out?
Sorry, I have a boyfriend.
Would you mind if I took you out?
Would you go on a date with me?
Are you trying to pick me up?
Are you asking me out?
Are you asking me for a date?
Are you asking me out on a date?
Where do you want to meet?
Any place you want.
What time should we meet?
How about seven?
I want to talk to you.
Can we talk?
I'd like to talk with you.
Are you seeing anyone now?
Yeah, kind of.
Do you have a boyfriend/girlfriend now?
Are you dating anyone now?
Do you have a partner?
Are you going steady with someone?
What do you think of me?
I think you're great.
What do you think about me?
I love you.
I love you, too.
I'm in love with you.
You're the most beautiful woman I've ever seen.
You're the most beautiful woman I know.
I'm crazy for you.
I'm crazy about you.
I'm infatuated with you.
Don't play hard to get.
She wouldn't even talk to me.
She's playing hard to get.
Don't be a tease.
Don't play games.
Don't pretend you don't want me.
I don't want to get serious yet.
I want you to meet my parents.
I don't want to get serious yet.
I'm not ready for a commitment.
I don't want to be tied down.
I just want to have fun.
It was love at first sight.
I fell in love with you the first time I saw you.
I loved you the first time I laid eyes on you.
I wish I had never met you.
I regret meeting you.
I wish you were never a part of my life.
You're my type.
Why do you like me?
You're my type.
You're the right girl for me.
You're my kind of woman/man.
You make me happy.
You make me happy.
You do, too.
I'm happy to have known you.
I'm happy to have been a part of your life.
I'm glad I've gotten to know you.
You have beautiful eyes.
Your eyes are beautiful.
You're sweet.
You're so kind.
You're sexy.
You're hot.
Let's walk hand in hand.
Let's hold hands.
May I hold your hand?
Sure you may.
You're beautiful.
I want to know all about you.
I want to know everything about you.
Tell me all about yourself.
I want you.
I need you.
You're everything to me.
You're mine.
You belong to me.
I'm yours.
I'm all yours.
I can't live without you.
I don't want to live without you.
Life isn't worth living without you in my life.
You mean everything to me.
You mean the world to me.
Come closer.
What's on your mind?
What are you thinking about?
I think of you night and day.
I think of you constantly.
You have won my heart.
There will never be another you.
I'll never find another girl/boy like you.
You are very unique.
I like your dress.
Oh, thank you. You like it?
That's a nice dress.
That dress looks good on you.
You look good in that dress.
Nothing is too good for you.
You deserve the best.
Are you seducing me?
Are you coming on to me?
Hold me tight.
Don't go away.
Stay around.
Stick around.
I can't help falling in love with you.
I can't stop myself from loving you.
I've never felt like this before.
You're the one for me.
I'll love you forever.
I'll always love you.
I'll love you my whole life.
I always speak my mind.
I always say what's on my mind.
I'm always honest.
Love me, love my dog.
Be gentle.
Be soft.
Please do it gently.
Love me more.
Look at me!
I fell in love with Rose.
Does she love you?
I'm deeply in love with Rose.
I love Rose from the bottom of my heart.
I love Rose with all my heart.
Smooch! 
Will you marry me?
Yes, I will marry you.
Will you be my wife/husband?
I want to share the rest of my life with you.
I want to grow old together.
I don't want to get engaged yet.
I don't think we should get engaged yet.
I don't want to get married yet.
When will you be ready?
I'm not ready to settle down yet.
I'm not ready for married life yet.
I haven't thought about marriage yet.
I love you but I can't marry you.
I hesitate to marry her.
Why?
I'm not sure if I want to marry her.
I'm hesitant to marry her.
He's a newlywed.
He looks very happy lately.
He's a newlywed.
He is newly married.
He just got married.
How's (your) married life?
Not bad.
We're happy together now.
I love my wife.
We're two of a kind.
We're very similar.
Like husband, like wife.
We're a well-matched couple.
I'm a family-centered person.
I'm a family man.
She wants to start a family.
I'm pregnant.
Guess what? I'm pregnant.
Really?
I'm going to have a baby.
I'm expecting.
What did she have?
It's a girl.
We can work it out.
I think of my wife first.
My wife is very important to me.
I'm very close to my wife.
We (as a husband and a wife) don't have any fights.
Family man.
We fight a lot.
Do you two fight?
Yes, we fight a lot.
I don't love my wife any more.
My wife's cheating on me.
My wife's a two-timer.
My wife's secretly dating someone else.
My wife's having an affair.
We had a falling-out.
We had a big disagreement.
We don't get along anymore.
I've changed my mind.
I've reconsidered.
You have changed.
You're not the same as before.
Are you seeing someone now?
Actually, no.
I don't see eye to eye with my wife.
How's married life?
I don't see eye to eye with my wife.
We just don't get along.
I thought I knew you.
I had an affair with my secretary.
I don't enjoy being with you.
We don't have any fun anymore.
Let's get divorced.
I don't love you anymore.
Let's get divorced.
I'm separated from my wife.
We are living separately now.
I can't get over losing you.
I can't recover from breaking up with you.
I can't forget you.
Breaking up is hard to do.
Don't break my heart.
I want to break up.
Don't make me sad.
We argued for hours.
I made it! 
Not quite.
I'm on time!
I arrived on time! 
Be punctual!
Yes, sir.
You are late again.
I was only late by five minutes.
I was only five minutes late.
Did you punch in?
Did you punch out?
Let me check my schedule.
Can we meet on Tuesday?
Let me check my schedule.
Let me look over my schedule.
Let me confirm my schedule.
I've got so much to do.
Don't worry. You can do it.
I have so much to do.
I have many things to do.
I'm extremely busy.
I'm pressed for time.
I'm an ordinary office worker.
I do office work.
I'm a regular office worker.
The work doesn't need much effort.
Lucky you! 
It's an easy job.
Don't neglect your duties! 
Okay.
 I won't.
I'm in charge of the west side.
I'm responsible for the west side.
I'm done with the work.
Already?
I'm finished with the work.
I'm all done with the work.
I can still work for a long time.
I'll be able to work for many more years.
I still have many years of work.
Our boss has been fired.
You're kidding! 
Our boss has been dismissed.
Our boss has been let go.
Our boss has been canned.
Our boss has been sacked.
Please staple these together.
Would you copy these papers?
This copy machine doesn't work.
This copy machine isn't working.
This copier is broken.
I think it ran out of paper.
I think it's out of paper.
When is this due?
When do I have to pay this by?
When is the last day I can pay for this?
How long is the pay period?
When is the pay period over?
When does this have to be finished by?
It's due on the thirtieth.
Let's take a break.
Yes, let's.
Let's take a break, shall we?
Shall we take a break.
Get me a cup of coffee, will you?
Would you bring me a cup of coffee?
Would you like some coffee?
Would you care for some coffee?
Do you want some coffee?
How about some coffee?
That would be great.
That would be perfect.
That would hit the spot.
That would be grand.
It's almost lunchtime.
It's almost time for lunch.
We took an hour lunch break.
Where were you?
We took an hour lunch break.
Let's get started.
Let's begin! 
Here we go.
Let's get down to business.
Let's get down to work.
I can't leave this job at the moment.
Let's take a vacation soon.
I can't leave this job at the moment.
I'm tied up at the moment.
I'm too busy to bother with such details.
I'm so busy, I'd really appreciate any help I could get.
Don't slack off! 
Do your best!
Don't work too hard.
Good-bye, John.
Bye.
 Don't work too hard.
Pull yourself together.
But I just made a big mistake.
Get a hold of yourself.
You can count on me.
I need more help with the project.
Well, you can count on me.
I don't even have time to catch my breath.
How's work?
I don't even have time to catch my breath.
I don't have time to breathe.
What's keeping you?
What's keeping you?Hurry up.
I'll be over soon.
Changing jobs is the only way out.
You'd better work harder.
I'm a workaholic.
I don't know how to fill out this form.
How do I fill out this form?
Can you help me with this form?
It looks like it's going to be a long meeting, doesn't it?
This is gonna be a long one.
The meeting went well.
That went well.
I did all I could do.
Why didn't you help more?
I did all I could do.
That's all I can do.
There is nothing more I can do.
Are you impressed?
Very.
Isn't it impressive?
Please underline the important items.
Check.
Would you get to the point?
All right, all right.
What's the point?
Stop beating around the bush.
What are you trying to say?
Please do it all over again.
From the beginning?
Please start over from the beginning.
Fax this paper to Mr.Tanaka.
Please hand the document in to me.
What document are you talking about?
Please submit the document to me.
Please hand in the document to me.
This is a piece of work I can be proud of.
I'm really proud of this.
I can't find my white-out.
Are you working overtime tonight?
Unfortunately, yes.
Are you working late tonight?
Business is business.
He's a hard worker.
You're overworking.
Finish this report today!
When is the paper due?
I've got so much to do.
There's a lot of work piled up on my desk.
I feel sorry for you.
We'll fake it.
We'll make it up as we go along.
All done!
I've finished it all.
It's been a long day.
It's time to go home.
It's been a long day.
We've worked hard today.
It was a very busy day.
Today was a rough day at work.
I can't make an exception for you.
It's dark outside already.
It has become dark outside already.
It's already dark out.
Let's finish up.
I'm so tired.
 Let's finish up.
Good idea. Let's go home.
Let's call it a day! 
Let's go home! 
I've just finished work.
Let's go for drink.
I just got off work.
Today's payday.
Oh, yeah?
 I forgot all about it.
Let's have a drink.
Let's go out for a drink!
Thanks for your hard work.
I hope you don't mind my leaving now.
Could you excuse me, please?
Will you excuse me, please?
Sorry for interrupting.
I'm sorry to interrupt.
I'm sorry to interrupt you.
Excuse me for interrupting.
Forgive me for interrupting.
May I interrupt (you)?
Excuse me.
Mr. Smith is on line one.
Oh, okay.
 Thanks.
I have an appointment with Mr. Aoki.
Hello.
 May I help you?
Yes, I have an appointment with Mr.Aoki.
What floor is ABC on?
The tenth floor.
Where are the elevators?
Around the corner over there.
I get along well with him.
What's John like?
I get along well with him.
I get on well with him.
I don't get along well with her.
I don't get on well with her.
I respect him.
I highly respect him.
I look up to him.
I look down on him.
I want to get along with everyone.
I hope I will get along with everyone.
Are you getting along with her?
She ignored me.
What did she do?
She ignored me.
She gave me the cold shoulder.
She didn't pay any attention to me (at all).
I don't know what he's really thinking.
I'm not sure what he is thinking about.
I don't really know what is on his mind.
I have no reason to be envied.
There is no reason to be jealous of me.
There is no reason to envy me.
I don't like brownnosers.
They're helping our boss again.
I don't like flatterers.
I don't like ass-kissers.
I'm neglecting my family.
I put my work before my family.
I should treat my family better.
Which side are you?
Which side are you on?
Who are you rooting for?
Which side do you support?
I'm on your side.
I will support you.
I agree with you.
He's very hard on me.
Do you like your boss?
No, he's very hard on me.
He treats me unkindly.
He's mean to me.
He's very strict.
He always treats me like an enemy.
He was rude to say that.
He always treats me like an enemy.
He acts like I'm an enemy.
He treats me as if I'm his enemy.
He treated me badly.
I was badly treated by him.
I received bad treatment from him.
He treated me unkindly.
I'm obligated to him.
I'm under obligation to him.
I owe him.
I have an obligation to him.
I'm deeply indebted to him.
I've received kindness from him.
I owe him a lot for everything he has done for me.
We're on a first name basis.
We're on first name terms.
He's quick on the uptake.
He's a fast learner.
He has a quick mind.
He catches on quickly.
He'll never let you down.
He's efficient.
He finished the job already.
He does things well and he gets them done quickly.
He gets things done efficiently.
He handles things quickly.
He handles matters promptly.
He's a good guy.
He's a good man.
He's a good person.
He looks old for his age.
He's only 46.
He looks old for his age.
He looks older than he is.
He looks young for his age.
You look younger than me.
We're the same age.
But you look younger than me.
You look younger than I do.
That's the way he is.
That's the kind of guy he is.
Who is he like?
He has a lot of common sense.
He's wise for his age.
He's only ten and he made this.
He's wise for his age.
He's wise considering his age.
He's wise for a man of his age.
He knows a lot of people.
He's well-known.
He's very popular.
He has a large circle of acquaintances.
He's a go-getter.
He runs a lot of business.
Yeah, he's a go-getter.
He's a man of action.
He's a man of ability.
He's a wheeler-dealer.
You're so sympathetic.
He's faithful.
He has a strong sense of duty.
He has a deep voice.
He has a low voice.
His voice is very deep.
He has put on weight.
He has gained weight.
He has lost weight.
He's overweight.
He's a fatso.
He's fat.
He's skinny.
You have a lot of nerve.
Sir, I don't think you should fire John.
You have a lot of nerve to say that.
You have a lot of balls.
You have a lot of guts.
You're bold.
You're very brave.
He's a very modest man.
He didn't say anything.
He's a very modest man.
He's very polite.
He doesn't like to brag.
He isn't boastful.
He has a good temper.
He's in a good mood.
He has a bad temper.
He's in a bad mood.
There's something strange about her.
There is something fishy about her.
There is something odd about her.
She's not herself.
She's been edgy lately.
Yeah, she's not herself.
She's not acting like herself.
She's not acting normally.
She's so weird.
She cut her hair very short.
She's bizarre.
She's very strange.
Tammy eats like a bird.
She's on a diet.
Tammy eats very little.
Tammy doesn't eat very much.
Tammy eats like a horse.
She has a nice figure.
His best days are gone.
He's past his prime.
My father's getting on in years.
My father's becoming an old man.
My father's getting older.
What does he look like?
They're making a big fuss.
They're making a big deal about it.
He's a chain smoker.
Does he smoke?
Yes, he's a chain smoker.
He's a heavy smoker.
He smokes non-stop.
He's selfish.
I don't like John.
Why?
Because he's selfish.
He's self-centered.
He's self-serving.
He only cares about himself.
He doesn't care about anyone but himself.
He takes things too seriously.
He's simpleminded.
He's a simple man.
He isn't so smart.
He's on edge today.
What's wrong with him?
I don't know.
He's edgy today.
He's in a bad mood today.
He's talkative.
Yeah, you can say that again.
He's a motor-mouth.
He never shuts up.
He's quite well off.
How's he doing?
He's quite well off now.
He's a wealthy man.
He's rich.
He's rolling in it.
He's fresh.
He always tries to touch me.
Yeah, he's fresh.
He's a dirty-minded man.
He's a dirty old man.
All he thinks about is sex.
He's a smooth talker.
Watch out for him.
Why?
He's honey-tongued.
He's nobody's fool.
What's Joe like?
He's nobody's fool.
He's very shrewd.
He often says absurd things.
He often says ridiculous things.
He says strange things a lot.
He says a lot of weird things.
He has no sense of responsibility.
He's so irresponsible.
He's very offensive.
He's a difficult man to deal with.
He's hard to deal with.
He's hard to put up with.
He's a stubborn old man.
Didn't your father say okay?
No, he's a stubborn old man.
He's a hardheaded old man.
He's aiming too high.
He's overreaching himself.
He's out of his league.
That man never admits defeat.
He never admits he is wrong.
He is a sore loser.
He hates being defeated.
He can't handle defeat.
He's very vague.
He's just like my brother.
He is difficult to understand.
He isn't very clear.
He's crooked.
But I like him.
He's a scammer.
He's a crook.
He's a con man.
He's good for nothing.
He's not nice to you?
No, he's good for nothing.
He isn't good for anything.
He's a bum.
She's shy around strangers.
She's bashful.
She feel uncomfortable around strangers.
She's afraid of strangers.
You're too timid.
You're gutless.
You're a wimp.
You're a chicken.
He's acting big.
He's acting like a hot shot.
He has a short temper.
He gets angry easily.
He loses his temper quickly.
He is very temperamental.
He eats like a horse.
He eats huge amounts.
He eats like a bird.
Your perfume is strong.
I can smell your perfume a mile away.
Your perfume is romantic.
I'm young in spirit.
I have a youthful spirit.
I'm young at heart.
I'm all thumbs.
Can't you fix it?
I'm all thumbs.
I'm clumsy.
I'm very clumsy.
I have butterfingers.
I'm (such) a klutz.
I like being alone.
I enjoy having time to myself.
I'm a loner.
I'm easygoing.
I'm temperamental.
I'm not. I'm easygoing.
I'm an optimist.
I'm carefree.
I like to take it easy.
I get embarrassed easily.
Your face is red! 
I get embarrassed easily.
I'm practical about everything.
I like to be practical about things.
I'm a very practical person.
I have a one-track mind.
I'm obsessed with one idea.
I can't take my mind off of.
I'm a good judge of character.
I have a good eye for character.
I'm a poor judge of character.
I have a sweet tooth.
You like sweets, don't you?
Yeah, I have a sweet tooth.
I love sweets.
I prefer wine to sweets.
I prefer savory to sweet.
I have led a dog's life.
I have had a miserable life.
I've had a terrible life.
I have poor eyesight.
I have good eyesight.
ABC Business College, may I help you?
Thank you for calling ABC Business College.
Can I help you?
Who's calling, please?
Who's speaking, please?
Who is this, please?
May I ask who's calling?
Who should I say is calling?
Who in particular would you like to talk to?
He's been expecting your call.
Which Suzuki do you want to talk to?
There are three Suzukis here.
Would you mind calling back later?
Could you call back later?
Extension 103, please.
May I have extension 103?
Could I have extension number 103?
Please connect me with extension 103.
Would you transfer this call to extension 103?
I'll connect you to extension 103.
I'm transferring your call to extension 103.
Hold on, please.
May I speak to Mr.
 Smith?
Hold on, please.
One moment, please.
Just a moment, please.
Hold the line, please.
Just a second, please.
I'll put him on.
I'll connect you.
I'll transfer your call.
I'll put you through.
I'll get your party for you.
Let me transfer this call for you.
I'm transferring your call to the person in charge.
I'm transferring your call to the sales department.
Mr.Peck is on line one.
Mr.Peck for you.
 He's on line one.
Pick up line one.
 It's Mr. Peck.
You have a call from Mr.Miller of ABC.
There's a call from Mr. Miller of ABC.
Mr. Miller of ABC is on the line.
Your party is on the line.
Thank you.
Her line is busy now.
Sorry, her line is busy now.
Alright. I'll try again later.
She's on another line now.
Ms. Kane is talking to someone else now.
I'm afraid she's on the other line now.
I'm sorry, she's tied up at the moment.
I'm sorry, she has company at this time.
Would you like to hold?
No, I'll call back later. Thanks
Would you like to stay on the line?
Can you hold the line, please?
Would you like to hold on?
Wanna hold?
He's away from his desk now.
He's in but he's not at his desk right now.
I'm sorry, he's not in right now.
Is John there, please?
I'm sorry, he's not in right now.
He's not in.
He's out now.
He's not here now.
He's out of the office right now.
When is he coming back?
When do you expect him back?
What time do you think he'll be back?
He should be back in ten minutes.
He should be back in the office next week.
He's on vacation until next week.
He called in sick today.
He's out of town now.
He's out to lunch now.
He's in a meeting right now.
He's off today.
Could you call back later?
Would you call again later?
Would you mind calling back later?
Please call me back in ten minutes.
Would you call me back in ten minutes, if you don't mind?
Would you call me back in ten minutes if possible?
May I take a message?
No, thank you.
Is there any message?
Would you like to leave a message?
Shall I take a message?
Could I take a message?
Do you have any message?
May I take a message?
I have just returned from a visit to my landlord
the solitary neighbour that I shall be troubled with
This is certainly a beautiful country! 
In all England, 
I do not believe that I could have fixed on a situation so completely removed from the stir of society
A perfect misanthropist's heaven: 
and Mr Heathcliff and I are such a suitable pair to divide the desolation between us
A capital fellow! 
He little imagined how my heart warmed towards him when I beheld his black eyes withdraw so suspiciously under their brows, 
as I rode up, and when his fingers sheltered themselves, 
with a jealous resolution, still farther in his waistcoat, as I announced my name.
`Mr Heathcliff!' I said.A nod was the answer.
`Mr Lockwood, your new tenant, sir
I do myself the honour of calling as soon as possible after my arrival, 
to express the hope that I have not inconvenienced you by my perseverance in soliciting the occupation of Thrushcross Grange: 
I heard yesterday you had had some thoughts--'
`Thrushcross Grange is my own, sir,' he interrupted, wincing
`I should not allow anyone to inconvenience me, if I could hinder it--walk in!'
The `walk in' was uttered with closed teeth, and expressed the sentiment, `Go to the deuce': 
even the gate over which he leant manifested no sympathizing movement to the words; 
and I think that circumstance determined me to accept the invitation: 
I felt interested in a man who seemed more exaggeratedly reserved than myself.
When he saw my horse's breast fairly pushing the barrier, 
he did put out his hand to unchain it, 
and then sullenly preceded me up the causeway, calling, as we entered the court: 
`Joseph, take Mr Lockwood's horse; and bring up some wine.'
`Here we have the whole establishment of domestics, I suppose,' was the reflection suggested by this compound order.
`No wonder the grass grows up between the flags, and cattle are the only hedge-cutters.
Joseph was an elderly, nay, an old man: very old, perhaps, though hale and sinewy
`The Lord help us!' he soliloquized in an undertone of peevish displeasure, while relieving me of my horse: 
looking, meantime, in my face so sourly that I charitably conjectured he must have need of divine aid to digest his dinner, 
and his pious ejaculation had no reference to my unexpected advent.
Wuthering Heights is the name of Mr Heathcliff's dwelling
`Wuthering' being a significant provincial adjective, 
descriptive of the atmospheric tumult to which its station is exposed in stormy weather
Pure, bracing ventilation they must have up there at all times, indeed; 
one may guess the power of the north wind blowing over the edge, 
by the excessive slant of a few stunted firs at the end of the house; 
and by a range of gaunt thorns all stretching their limbs one way, as if craving alms of the sun
Happily, the architect had foresight to build it strong: 
the narrow windows are deeply set in the wall, 
and the corners defended with large jutting stones.
Before passing the threshold, I paused to admire a quantity of grotesque carving lavished over the front, 
and especially about the principal door; 
above which, 
among a wilderness of crumbling griffins and shameless little boys, I detected the date `1500', 
and the name `Hareton Earnshaw'
I would have made a few comments, 
and requested a short history of the place from the surly owner; 
but his attitude at the door appeared to demand my speedy entrance, or complete departure,
and I had no desire to aggravate his impatience previous to inspecting the penetralium.
One step brought us into the family sitting-room, without any introductory lobby or passage: 
they call it here `the house' preeminently
It includes kitchen and parlour, generally; 
but I believe at Wuthering Heights the kitchen is forced to retreat altogether into another quarter: 
at least I distinguished a chatter of tongues, and a clatter of culinary utensils, deep within; 
and I observed no signs of roasting, boiling, or baking, about the huge fireplace; 
nor any glitter of copper saucepans and tin cullenders on the walls
One end, indeed, reflected splendidly both light and heat from ranks of immense pewter dishes, interspersed with silver jugs and tankards, 
towering row after row, on a vast oak dresser, to the very roof
The latter had never been underdrawn: 
its entire anatomy lay bare to an inquiring eye, 
except where a frame of wood laden with oatcakes and clusters of legs of beef, mutton, and ham, concealed it
Above the chimney were sundry villainous ; 
old guns, and a couple of horse-pistols: 
and, by way of ornament, three gaudily painted canisters disposed along its ledge
The floor was of smooth, white stone; 
the chairs, high-backed, primitive structures, painted green: 
one or two heavy black ones lurking in the shade
In an arch under the dresser, reposed a huge, liver-coloured bitch pointer, surrounded by a swarm of squealing puppies; 
and other dogs haunted other recesses.
The apartment and furniture would have been nothing extraordinary as belonging to a homely, northern farmer, with a stubborn countenance, 
and stalwart limbs set out to advantage in knee breeches and gaiters
Such an individual seated in his armchair, his mug of ale frothing on the round table before him, 
is to be seen in any circuit of five or six miles among these hills, if you go at the right time after dinner
But Mr Heathcliff forms a singular contrast to his abode and style of living
He is a dark-skinned gipsy in aspect, in dress and manners a gentleman: 
that is, as much a gentleman as many a country squire: rather slovenly, perhaps, yet not looking amiss with his negligence,
because he has an erect and handsome figure; and rather morose
Possibly, some people might suspect him of a degree of under-bred pride; 
I have a sympathetic chord within that tells me it is nothing of the sort: 
I know, by instinct, his reserve springs from an aversion to showy displays of feeling--to manifestations of mutual kindliness
He'll love and hate equally under cover, 
and esteem it a species of impertinence to be loved or hated again
No, I'm running on too fast: 
I bestow my own attributes over liberally on him
Mr Heathcliff may have entirely dissimilar reasons for keeping his hand out of the way when he meets a would-be acquaintance, to those which actuate me
Let me hope my constitution is almost peculiar: 
my dear mother used to say I should never have a comfortable home; and only last summer I proved myself perfectly unworthy of one.
While enjoying a month of fine weather at the sea coast, I was thrown into the company of a most fascinating creature: 
a real goddess in my eyes, as long as she took no notice of me
I `never told my love' vocally; 
still, if looks have language, the merest idiot might have guessed I was over head and ears: she understood me at last, 
and looked a return--the sweetest of all imaginable looks
And what did I do? 
I confess it with shame--shrunk icily into myself, like a snail; 
at every glance retired colder and further; till finally the poor innocent was led to doubt her own senses, 
and, overwhelmed with confusion at her supposed mistake, persuaded her mamma to decamp
By this curious turn of disposition I have gained the reputation of deliberate heartlessness; 
how undeserved, I alone can appreciate.
I took a seat at the end of the hearthstone opposite that towards which my landlord advanced, 
and filled up an interval of silence by attempting to caress the canine mother, who had left her nursery, 
and was sneaking wolfishly to the back of my legs, her lip curled up, and her white teeth watering for a snatch
My caress provoked a long, guttural gnarl.
`You'd better let the dog alone,' growled Mr Heathcliff in unison, checking fiercer demonstrations with a punch of his foot
`She's not accustomed to be spoiled--not kept for a pet.' 
Then, striding to a side door, he shouted again, `Joseph!'
Joseph mumbled indistinctly in the depths of the cellar, 
but gave no intimation of ascending; 
so his master dived down to him, leaving me vis-¨¤-vis the ruffianly bitch and a pair of grim shaggy sheep-dogs,
who shared with her a jealous guardianship over all my movements
Not anxious to come in contact with their fangs, I sat still; 
but, imagining they would scarcely understand tacit insults, I unfortunately indulged in winking and making faces at the trio, 
and some turn of my physiognomy so irritated madam, that she suddenly broke into a fury and leapt on my knees
I flung her back, and hastened to interpose the table between us
This proceeding roused the whole hive: half a dozen four-footed fiends, of various sizes and ages, issued from hidden dens to the common centre
I felt my heels and coat-laps peculiar subjects of assault; 
and parrying off the larger combatants as effectually as I could with the poker, 
I was constrained to demand, aloud, assistance from some of the household in re-establishing peace.
Mr Heathcliff and his man climbed the cellar steps with vexatious phlegm: 
I don't think they moved one second faster than usual, though the hearth was an absolute tempest of worrying and yelping
Happily, an inhabitant of the kitchen made more dispatch: 
a lusty dame, with tucked-up gown, bare arms, and fire-flushed cheeks, rushed into the midst of us flourishing a frying-pan: 
and used that weapon, and her tongue, to such purpose, that the storm subsided magically, 
and she only remained, heaving like a sea after a high wind, when her master entered on the scene.
`What the devil is the matter?' he asked, eyeing me in a manner that I could ill endure after this inhospitable treatment.
`What the devil, indeed!' I muttered
`The herd of possessed swine could have had no worse spirits in them than those animals of yours, sir
You might as well leave a stranger with a brood of tigers!'
`They won't meddle with persons who touch nothing,' he remarked, putting the bottle before me, and restoring the displaced table
`The dogs do right to be vigilant
Take a glass of wine?'
`No, thank you.'`Not bitten, are you?'`If I had been, I would have set my signet on the biter.
'Heathcliff's countenance relaxed into a grin.`Come, come,' he said, `you are flurried, Mr Lockwood
Here, take a little wine
Guests are so exceedingly rare in this house that I and my dogs, I am willing to own, hardly know how to receive them
Your health, sir!'
I bowed and returned the pledge; beginning to perceive that it would be foolish to sit sulking for the misbehaviour of a pack of curs: 
besides, I felt loath to yield the fellow further amusement at my expense; since the humour took that turn
He--probably swayed by prudential consideration of the folly of offending a good tenant--relaxed a little in the laconic style of chipping off his pronouns and auxiliary verbs, 
and introduced what he supposed would be a subject of interest to me--a discourse on the advantages and disadvantages of my present place of retirement
I found him very intelligent on the topics we touched; and before I went home, 
I was encouraged so far as to volunteer another visit tomorrow
He evidently wished no repetition of my intrusion
I shall go, notwithstanding
It is astonishing how sociable I feel myself compared with him.
Yesterday afternoon set in misty and cold
I had half a mind to spend it by my study fire, instead of wading through heath and mud to Wuthering Heights
On coming up from dinner, however on mounting the stairs with this lazy intention, and stepping into the room, 
I saw a servant girl on her knees surrounded by brushes and coal-scuttles, 
and raising an infernal dust as she extinguished the flames with heaps of cinders
This spectacle drove me back immediately; 
I took my hat, and, after a four-miles' walk, arrived at Heathcliff's garden gate just in time to escape the first feathery flakes of a snow shower.
On that bleak hill top the earth was hard with a black frost, and the air made me shiver through every limb
Being unable to remove the chain, 
I jumped over, and, running up the flagged causeway bordered with straggling gooseberry bushes, knocked vainly for admittance, 
till my knuckles tingled and the dogs howled.
`Wretched inmates!' I ejaculated mentally, `you deserve perpetual isolation from your species for your churlish inhospitality
At least, I would not keep my doors barred in the day time
I don't care--I will get in!' So resolved, I grasped the latch and shook it vehemently
Vinegar-faced Joseph projected his head from a round window of the barn.
`Whet are ye for?' he shouted
`T' maister's dahn i' t' fowld
Go rahnd by th' end ut' laith, if yah went tuh spake tull him.'
`Is there nobody inside to open the door?' I hallooed, responsively.
`They's nobbut t' missis; 
and shoo'll nut oppen't an ye mak yer flaysome dins till neeght.'
`Why? Cannot you tell her who I am, eh, Joseph?'
`Nor-ne me! Aw'll hae noa hend wi't,' muttered the head, vanishing.
The snow began to drive thickly
I seized the handle to essay another trial; 
when a young man without coat, and shouldering a pitchfork, appeared in the yard behind
He hailed me to follow him, and, after marching through a wash-house, and a paved area containing a coal shed, pump, and pigeon cot, 
we at length arrived in the huge, warm, cheerful apartment, where I was formerly received
It glowed delightfully in the radiance of an immense fire, compounded of coal, peat, and wood; 
and near the table, laid for a plentiful evening meal, 
I was pleased to observe the `missis', an individual whose existence I had never previously suspected
I bowed and waited, thinking she would bid me take a seat
She looked at me, leaning back in her chair, and remained motionless and mute.
`Rough weather!' I remarked
`I'm afraid, Mrs Heathcliff, the door must bear the consequence of your servants' leisure attendance: 
I had hard work to make them hear me.'
She never opened her mouth
I stared--she stared also: 
at any rate, she kept her eyes on me in a cool, regardless manner, exceedingly embarrassing and disagreeable.
`Sit down,' said the young man gruffly
`He'll be in soon.'
I obeyed;
 and hemmed, and called the villain Juno, who deigned, 
 at this second interview, to move the extreme tip of her tail, in token of owning my acquaintance.
`A beautiful animal!' I commenced again
`Do you intend parting with the little ones, madam?'
`They are not mine,' said the amiable hostess, more repellingly than Heathcliff himself could have replied.
`Ah, your favourites are among these?' I continued, 
turning to an obscure cushion full of something like cats.
`A strange choice of favourites!' she observed scornfully.
Unluckily, it was a heap of dead rabbits
I hemmed once more, and drew closer to the hearth, repeating my comment on the wildness of the evening.
`You should not have come out,' she said, rising and reaching from the chimney-piece two of the painted canisters.
Her position before was sheltered from the light; 
now, I had a distinct view of her whole figure and countenance
She was slender, and apparently scarcely past girlhood: an admirable form, and the most exquisite little face that I have ever had the pleasure of beholding; 
small features, very fair; flaxen ringlets, or rather golden, hanging loose on her delicate neck; and eyes, had they been agreeable in expression, they would have been irresistible: 
fortunately for my susceptible heart, the only sentiment they evinced hovered between scorn, 
and a kind of desperation, singularly unnatural to be detected there
The canisters were almost out of her reach; 
I made a motion to aid her; she turned upon me as a miser might turn if anyone attempted to assist him in counting his gold.
`I don't want your help,' she snapped; 
`I can get them for myself.'
`I beg your pardon!' I hastened to reply.
`Were you asked to tea?' she demanded, tying an apron over her neat black frock, 
and standing with a spoonful of the leaf poised over the pot.
`I shall be glad to have a cup,' I answered.`Were you asked?' she repeated.`No,' I said, half smiling
`You are the proper person to ask me.'
She flung the tea back, spoon and all, and resumed her chair in a pet; 
her forehead corrugated, and her red under lip pushed out, like a child's ready to cry.
Meanwhile, the young man had slung on to his person a decidedly shabby upper garment, 
and, erecting himself before the blaze, looked down on me from the corner of his eyes, 
for all the world as if there were some mortal feud unavenged between us
I began to doubt whether he were a servant or not: 
his dress and speech were both rude, entirely devoid of the superiority observable in Mr and Mrs Heathcliff; 
his thick brown curls were rough and uncultivated, 
his whiskers encroached bearishly over his cheeks, 
and his hands were embrowned like those of a common labourer: 
still his bearing was free, almost haughty, and he showed none of a domestic's assiduity in attending on the lady of the house
In the absence of clear proofs of his condition, I deemed it best to abstain from noticing his curious conduct;
and, five minutes afterwards, the entrance of Heathcliff relieved me, in some measure, from my uncomfortable state.
`You see, sir, I am come, according to promise!' I exclaimed, assuming the cheerful;
 `and I fear I shall be weatherbound for half an hour, if you can afford me shelter during that space.'
`Half an hour?' he said, shaking the white flakes from his clothes; 
`I wonder you should select the thick of a snowstorm to ramble about in
Do you know that you run a risk of being lost in the marshes? 
People familiar with these moors often miss their road on such evenings; 
and I can tell you there is no chance of a change at present.'
`Perhaps I can get a guide among your lads, and he might stay at the Grange till morning--could you spare me one?'
`No, I could not.'
`Oh, indeed! Well, then, I must trust to my own sagacity.'`Umph!'
`Are you going to mak th' tea?' demanded he of the shabby coat, 
shifting his ferocious gaze from me to the young lady.
`Is he to have any?' she asked, appealing to Heathcliff.
`Get it ready, will you?' was the answer, uttered so savagely that I started
The tone in which the words were said revealed a genuine bad nature
I no longer felt inclined to call Heathcliff a capital fellow
When the preparations were finished, he invited me with--`Now, sir, bring forward your chair.' 
And we all, including the rustic youth, drew round the table: 
an austere silence prevailing while we discussed our meal.
I thought, if I had caused the cloud, 
it was my duty to make an effort to dispel it
They could not every day sit so grim and taciturn; 
and it was impossible, however ill-tempered they might be, that the universal scowl they wore was their everyday countenance.
`It is strange,' I began, in the interval of swallowing one cup of tea and receiving another--`
it is strange how custom can mould our tastes and ideas: many could not imagine the existence of happiness in a life of such complete exile from the world as you spend, Mr Heathcliff; yet I'll venture to say, that, surrounded by your family, and with your amiable lady as the presiding genius over your home and heart--'
My amiable lady!' he interrupted, with an almost diabolical sneer on his face
`Where is she--my amiable lady?'
`Mrs Heathcliff, your wife, I mean.'
`Well, yes--Oh, you would intimate that her spirit has taken the post of ministering angel, 
and guards the fortunes of Wuthering Heights even when her body is gone
Is that it?'
Perceiving myself in a blunder, 
I attempted to correct it
I might have seen there was too great a disparity between the ages of the parties to make it likely that they were man and wife
One was about forty: 
a period of mental vigour at which men seldom cherish the delusion of being married for love by girls: 
that dream is reserved for the solace of our declining years
The other did not look seventeen.
Then it flashed upon me--`The clown at my elbow, 
who is drinking his tea out of a basin and eating his bread with unwashed hands, 
may be her husband: Heathcliff, junior, of course
Here is the consequence of being buried alive: 
she has thrown herself away upon that boor from sheer ignorance that better individuals existed! 
A sad pity--I must beware how I cause her to regret her choice.' 
The last reflection may seem conceited; it was not
My neighbour struck me as bordering on repulsive; 
I knew, through experience, that I was tolerably attractive.
`Mrs Heathcliff is my daughter-in-law,' said Heathcliff, corroborating my surmise
He turned, as he spoke, a peculiar look in her direction: a look of hatred; 
unless he has a most perverse set of facial muscles that will not, like those of other people, interpret the language of his soul.
`Ah, certainly--I see now: you are the favoured possessor of the beneficent fairy,' I remarked, turning to my neighbour.
This was worse than before: 
the youth grew crimson, and clenched his fist, with every appearance of a meditated assault
But he seemed to recollect himself presently, 
and smothered the storm in a brutal curse, muttered on my behalf: 
which, however, I took care not to notice.
`Unhappy in your conjectures, sir,' observed my host;
 `we neither of us have the privilege of owning your good fairy; her mate is dead
I said she was my daughter-in-law, therefore, she must have married my son.'
`And this young man is--'
`Not my son, assuredly.'
Heathcliff smiled again, 
as if it were rather too bold a jest to attribute the paternity of that bear to him.
`My name is Hareton Earnshaw,' growled the other; 
`and I'd counsel you to respect it!'
`I've shown no disrespect,' was my reply, laughing internally at the dignity with which he announced himself.
He fixed his eye on me longer than I cared to return the stare, 
for fear I might be tempted either to box his ears or render my hilarity audible
I began to feel unmistakably out of place in that pleasant family circle
The dismal spiritual atmosphere overcame, and more than neutralized, the glowing physical comforts round me; 
and I resolved to be cautious how I ventured under those rafters a third time.
The business of eating being concluded, 
and no one uttering a word of sociable conversation, 
I approached a window to examine the weather
A sorrowful sight I saw: dark night coming down prematurely, 
and sky and hills mingled in one bitter whirl of wind and suffocating snow.
`I don't think it possible for me to get home now without a guide,'
I could not help exclaiming
`The roads will be buried already; 
and, if they were bare, I could scarcely distinguish a foot in advance.
`Hareton, drive those dozen sheep into the barn porch
They'll be covered if left in the fold all night:
and put a plank before them,' said Heathcliff.
`How must I do?' I continued, with rising irritation.
There was no reply to my question; 
and on looking round I saw only Joseph bringing in a pail of porridge for the dogs, 
and Mrs Heathcliff leaning over the fire, 
diverting herself with burning a bundle of matches which had fallen from the chimney-piece as she restored the tea canister to its place
The former, when he had deposited his burden, took a critical survey of the room, 
and in cracked tones, grated out:
`Aw woonder hagh yah can faishion tuh stand thear i' idleness un war, when all on 'em's goan aght! 
Bud yah're a nowt, and it's noa use talking --yah'll niver mend uh yer ill ways, bud goa raight tuh t' divil, like yer mother afore ye!'
I imagined, for a moment, that this piece of eloquence was addressed to me; 
and, sufficiently enraged, stepped towards the aged rascal with an intention of kicking him out of the door
Mrs Heathcliff, however, checked me by her answer.
`You scandalous old hypocrite!' she replied
`Are you not afraid of being carried away bodily, whenever you mention the devil's name? 
I warn you to refrain from provoking me, or I'll ask your abduction as a special favour
Stop! look here, Joseph,' she continued, taking a long, dark book from a shelf; 
`I'll show you how far I've progressed in the Black Art: 
I shall soon be competent to make a clear house of it
The red cow didn't die by chance; 
and your rheumatism can hardly be reckoned among providential visitations!'
`Oh, wicked, wicked!' gasped the elder; 
`may the Lord deliver us from evil!'
`No, reprobate! you are a castaway--be off, or I'll hurt you seriously! 
I'll have you all modelled in wax and clay; 
and the first who passes the limits I fix, shall--I'll not say what he shall be done to--
but, you'll see! Go, I'm looking at you!'
The little witch put a mock malignity into her beautiful eyes, and Joseph, trembling with sincere horror, 
hurried out praying and ejaculating `wicked' as he went
I thought her conduct must be prompted by a species of dreary fun; 
and, now that we were alone, I endeavoured to interest her in my distress.
`Mrs Heathcliff,' I said earnestly, `you must excuse me for troubling you
I presume, because, with that face, 
I'm sure you cannot help being good-hearted
Do point out some landmarks by which I may know my way home: 
I have no more idea how to get there than you would have how to get to London!'
`Take the road you came,' she answered, ensconcing herself in a chair, with a candle, 
and the long book open before her
`It is brief advice, but as sound as I can give.'
`Then, if you hear of me being discovered dead in a bog or a pit full of snow, 
your conscience won't whisper that it is partly your fault?'
`How so? I cannot escort you
They wouldn't let me go to the end of the garden wall.'
`You! I should be sorry to ask you to cross the threshold, 
for my convenience, on such a night,' I cried
`I want you to tell me my way, net to show it; 
or else to persuade Mr Heathcliff to give me a guide.'
`Who? There is himself, Earnshaw, Zillah, Joseph, and I
Which would you have?'
`Are there no boys at the farm?'`No, those are all.'`
Then, it follows that I am compelled to stay.'
`That you may settle with your host
I have nothing to do with it.'`
I hope it will be a lesson to you to make no more rash journeys on these hills,' cried Heathcliff's stern voice from the kitchen entrance
`As to staying here, I don't keep accommodations for visitors: 
you must share a bed with Hareton or Joseph, if you do.'
`I can sleep on a chair in this room,' I replied.
`No, no! A stranger is a stranger, be he rich or poor: 
it will not suit me to permit anyone the range of the place while I am off guard!' said the unmannerly wretch.
With this insult, my patience was at an end
I uttered an expression of disgust, and pushed past him into the yard, 
running against Earnshaw in my haste
It was so dark that I could not see the means of exit; 
and, as I wandered round, 
I heard another specimen of their civil behaviour amongst each other
At first the young man appeared about to befriend me.
`I'll go with him as far as the park,' he said.
`You'll go with him to hell!' 
exclaimed his master, or whatever relation he bore
`And who is to look after the horses, eh?'
A man's life is of more consequence than one evening's neglect of the horses: 
somebody must go, murmured Mrs Heathcliff, more kindly than I expected.
`Not at your command!' retorted Hareton
`If you set store on him, you'd better be quiet.'
`Then I hope his ghost will haunt you; 
and I hope Mr Heathcliff will never get another tenant till the Grange is a ruin!' she answered sharply.
`Hearken, hearken, shoo's cursing on 'em!' muttered Joseph, towards whom I had been steering.
He sat within earshot, milking the cows by the light of a lantern, which I seized unceremoniously, 
and, calling out that I would send it back on the morrow, rushed to the nearest postern.
`Maister, maister, he's stealing t' lantern!' 
shouted the ancient, pursuing my retreat
`Hey, Gnasher! Hey, dog! Hey, Wolf, holld him, holld him!'
On opening the little door, two hairy monsters flew at my throat, bearing me down and extinguishing the light; 
while a mingled guffaw from Heathcliff and Hareton, put the copestone on my rage and humiliation
Fortunately, the beasts seemed more bent on stretching their paws and yawning, and flourishing their tails, than devouring me alive; 
but they would suffer no resurrection, and I was forced to lie till their malignant master pleased to deliver me: 
then, hatless and trembling with wrath, 
I ordered the miscreants to let me out--on their peril to keep me one minute longer-with several incoherent threats of retaliation that, 
in their indefinite depth of virulency, smacked of King Lear.
The vehemence of my agitation brought on a copious bleeding at the nose, 
and still Heathcliff laughed, and still I scolded
I don't know what would have concluded the scene, had there not been one person at hand rather more rational than myself, 
and more benevolent than my entertainer
This was Zillah, the stout housewife; 
who at length issued forth to inquire into the nature of the uproar
She thought that some of them had been laying violent hands on me; 
and, not daring to attack her master, she turned her vocal artillery against the young scoundrel.
`Well, Mr Earnshaw,' she cried, `I wonder what you'll have agait next! 
Are we going to murder folk on our very doorstones? 
I see this house will never do for me--look at t' poor lad, he's fair choking! Wisht, wisht! you mun'n't go on so
Come in, and I'll cure that; 
there now, hold ye still.'
With these words she suddenly splashed a pint of icy water down my neck, and pulled me into the kitchen
Mr Heathcliff followed, his accidental merriment expiring quickly in his habitual moroseness.
I was sick exceedingly, and dizzy and faint; 
and thus compelled perforce to accept lodgings under his roof
He told Zillah to give me a glass of brandy, and then passed on to the inner room; 
while she condoled with me on my sorry predicament, and having obeyed his orders, whereby I was somewhat revived, ushered me to bed.
While leading the way upstairs, she recommended that I should hide the candle, and not make a noise; 
for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in, and never let anybody lodge there willingly
I asked the reason
She did not know, she answered: 
she had only lived there a year or two; 
and they had so many queer goings on, she could not begin to be curious.
Too stupefied to be curious myself, 
I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed
The whole furniture consisted of a chair, a clothes-press, and a large oak case, with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows
Having approached this structure I looked inside, 
and perceived it to be a singular sort of old-fashioned couch, 
very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself
In fact it formed a little closet, and the ledge of a window, 
which it enclosed, served as a table
I slid back the panelled sides, got in with my light, pulled them together again, 
and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff, and everyone else.
The ledge, where I placed my candle, had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner; 
and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint
This writing, however, was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters, large and small--Catherine Earnshaw, 
here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff, and again to Catherine Linton.
In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window, 
and continued spelling over Catherine Earnshaw--Heathcliff--Linton, till my eyes closed; 
but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark as vivid as spectres--the air swarmed with Catherines; 
and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name, 
I discovered my candle wick reclining on one of the antique volumes, 
and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calfskin
I snuffed it off, and, very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea, 
sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee
It was a Testament, in lean type, and smelling dreadfully musty: 
a fly-leaf bore the inscription --`Catherine Earnshaw, her book', and a date some quarter of a century back
I shut it, and took up another, and another, till I had examined all
Catherine's library was select, and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used; 
though not altogether for a legitimate purpose: scarcely one chapter had escaped a pen-and-ink commentary--at least, the appearance of one--covering every morsel of blank that the printer had left
Some were detached sentences; 
other parts took the form of a regular diary, scrawled in an unformed childish hand
At the top of an extra page 
I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Joseph,--rudely, yet powerfully sketched
An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine, 
and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
`An awful Sunday!' commenced the paragraph beneath
`I wish my father were back again
Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrocious--H
and I are going to rebel--we took our initiatory step this evening.
`All day had been flooding with rain; 
we could not go to church, so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret; 
and, while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable fire--doing anything but reading their Bibles, I'll answer for it--Heathcliff, myself, 
and the unhappy plough-boy, were commanded to take our prayer books, and mount: 
we were ranged in a row, on a sack of corn, groaning and shivering, and hoping that Joseph would shiver too, 
so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake
A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours; 
and yet my brother had the face to exclaim, when he saw us descending, "What, done already?" 
On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play, if we did not make much noise; 
now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into comers!
"You forget you have a master here," says the tyrant
"I'll demolish the first who puts me out of temper! 
I insist on perfect sobriety and silence
Oh, boy! was that you? Frances, darling, pull his hair as you go by: 
I heard him snap his fingers." Frances pulled his hair heartily, 
and then went and seated herself on her husband's knee; and there they were, like two babies, 
kissing and talking nonsense by the hour--foolish palaver that we should be ashamed of
We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser
I had just fastened our pinafores together, 
and hung them up for a curtain, when in comes Joseph on an errand from the stables
He tears down my handiwork, boxes my ears, and croaks--
"T' maister nobbut just buried, and Sabbath nut o'ered, und t' sahnd uh t' gospel still i' yer lugs, and yah darr be laiking! Shame on ye! 
sit ye dahn, ill childer! they's good books eneugh if ye'll read 'em! sit ye dahn, and think uh yer sowls!"
Saying this, 
he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the far-off fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber thrust upon us
I could not bear the employment
I took my dingy volume by the scroop, and hurled it into the dog kennel, vowing I hated a good book
Heathcliff kicked his to the same place
Then there was a hubbub!
"Maister Hindley!" shouted our chaplain
"Maister, coom hither! Miss Cathy's riven th' back off `Th' Helmet uh Salvation, 
un' Heathcliff's pawsed his fit intuh t' first part uh `T' Brooad Way to Destruction!' 
It's fair flaysome ut yah let 'em goa on this gait
Ech! th' owd man ud uh laced 'em properly--but he's goan!"
`Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth, and seizing one of us by the collar, and the other by the arm, hurled both into the back kitchen; 
where, Joseph asseverated, "owd Nick" would fetch us as sure as we were living: 
and, so comforted, we each sought a separate nook to await his advent
I reached this book, and a pot of ink from a shelf, and pushed the house door ajar to give me light, 
and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes; 
but my companion is impatient, and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywoman's cloak, and have a scamper on the moors, under its shelter
A pleasant suggestion--and then, 
if the surly old man come in, he may believe his prophecy verified--we cannot be damper, or colder, in the rain than we are here.
I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project, for the next sentence took up another subject: she waxed lachrymose.
How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so!' she wrote
`My head aches, till I cannot keep it on the pillow; 
and still I can't give over
Poor Heathcliff! 
Hindley calls him a vagabond, and won't let him sit with us, nor eat with us any more; 
and, he says, he and I must not play together, and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders
He has been blaming our father  for treating 
too liberally; 
and swears he will reduce him to his right place--I began to nod drowsily over the dim page: 
my eye wandered from manuscript to print, 
I saw a red ornamented title--`Seventy Times Seven, and the First of the Seventy-First
A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabes Branderham, in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough.' 
And while I was, half consciously, worrying my brain to guess what Jabes Branderham would make of his subject, 
I sank back in bed, and fell asleep
Alas, for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! 
what else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? 
I don't remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
I began to dream, almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality
I thought it was morning; 
and I had set out on my way home, with Joseph for a guide
The snow lay yards deep in our road; 
and, as we floundered on, my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrim's staff: 
telling me that I could never get into the house without one, and boastfully flourishing a heavy-headed cudgel, which I understood to be so denominated
For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence
Then a new idea flashed across me
I was not going there: 
we were journeying to hear the famous Jabes Branderham preach from the text--`Seventy Times Seven'; 
and either Joseph, the preacher, or I had committed the `First of the Seventy-First', and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
We came to the chapel
I have passed it really in my walks, twice or thrice; 
it lies in a hollow, between two hills; an elevated hollow, near a swamp, 
whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there
The roof has been kept whole hitherto; 
but as the clergyman's stipend is only twenty pounds per annum, 
and a house with two rooms, threatening speedily to determine into one, no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor: 
especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets
However, in my dream, Jabes had a full and attentive congregation; 
and he preached--good God! what a sermon'
divided into four hundred and ninety parts, each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit, and each discussing a separate sin! 
Where he searched for them, I cannot tell
He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase, 
and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion
They were of the most curious character: 
odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
Oh, how weary I grew
How I writhed, and yawned, and nodded, and revived! 
How I pinched and pricked myself, 
and rubbed my eyes, and stood up, 
and sat down again, 
and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would ever have done
I was condemned 10 hear all out: 
finally, he reached the `First of the Seventy-First'
At that crisis, a sudden inspiration descended on me; 
I was moved to rise and denounce Jabes Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
`Sir,' I exclaimed, `sitting here within these four walls, at one stretch, 
I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse
Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to depart
seventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat
The four hundred and ninety-first is too much
Fellow-martyrs, have at him! Drag him down, and crush him to atoms, 
that the place which knows him may know him no more!'
`Thou art the Man!' cries Jabes, after a solemn pause, 
leaning over his cushion
`Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visage--
seventy times seven did I take counsel with my soul--Lo, this is human weakness: this also may be absolved! 
The First of the Seventy-First is come
Brethren, execute upon him the judgment written
Such honour have all His saints!'
With that concluding word, the whole assembly, exalting their pilgrim's staves, rushed round me in a body; 
and I, having no weapon to raise in self-defence, commenced grappling with Joseph, my nearest and most ferocious assailant, for his
In the confluence of the multitude, several clubs crossed; 
blows, aimed at me, fell on other sconces
Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counter-rappings: 
every man's hand was against his neighbour; 
and Branderham, unwilling to remain idle, poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit, which responded so smartly that, 
at last, to my unspeakable relief, they woke me
And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? 
What had played Jabes's part in the row? 
Merely, the branch of a fir tree that touched my lattice, as the blast wailed by, and rattled its dry cones against the panes! 
I listened doubtingly an instant; detected the disturber, then turned and dozed, and dreamt again: 
if possible, still more disagreeably than before.
This time, I remembered I was lying in the oak closet, 
and I heard distinctly the gusty wind, and the driving of the snow; 
I heard, also, the fir bough repeat its teasing sound, and ascribed it to the right cause: 
but it annoyed me so much, that I resolved to--silence it, if possible; 
and, I thought, I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement
The hook was soldered into the staple: 
a circumstance observed by me when awake, but forgotten
`I must stop it, nevertheless!' I muttered, knocking my knuckles through the glass, and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch; 
instead of which, my fingers closed on the fingers of a little, ice-cold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me: 
I tried to draw back my arm, but the hand clung to it, and a most melancholy voice sobbed, 
`Let me in--let me in!' `Who are you?' I asked, struggling, meanwhile, to disengage myself
`Catherine Linton,' it replied, shiveringly ;
 `I'm come home: I'd lost my way on the moor!' As it spoke, I discerned, obscurely, a child's face looking through the window
Terror made me cruel; 
and, finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off, I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane, and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes: 
still it wailed, `Let me in!' and maintained its tenacious grip, almost maddening me with fear
`How can I?' I said at length
`Let me go, if you want me to let you in!' 
The fingers relaxed, I snatched mine through the hole, hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it, 
and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer
I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour; 
yet, the instant I listened again, there was the doleful cry moaning on! 
`Begone!' I shouted, `I'll never let you in, not if you beg for twenty years.' 
`It is twenty years,' mourned the voice: `twenty years
I've been a waif for twenty years!' 
Thereat began a feeble scratching outside, 
and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward
I tried to jump up; 
but could not stir a limb; 
and so yelled aloud, in a frenzy of fright
To my confusion, I discovered the yell was not ideal: 
hasty footsteps approached my chamber door; 
somebody pushed it open, with a vigorous hand, and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed
I sat shuddering yet, and wiping the perspiration from my forehead: 
the intruder appeared to hesitate, and muttered to himself
At last, he said in a half-whisper, plainly not expecting an answer, `Is any one here?' 
I considered it best to confess my presence, for I knew Heathcliff's accents, and feared he might search further, if I kept quiet
With this intention, I turned and opened the panels
I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
Heathcliff stood near the entrance, in his shirt and trousers: 
with a candle dripping over his fingers, and his face as white as the wall behind him
The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock! 
the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet, and his agitation was so extreme, that he could hardly pick it up.
`It is only your guest, sir,' I called out, desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further
`I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep, owing to a frightful nightmare
I'm sorry I disturbed you.
`Oh God confound you, Mr Lockwood! 
I wish you were at the--` commenced my host, setting the candle on a chair, 
because he found it impossible to hold it steady
`And who showed you up into this room?' he continued, crushing his nails into his palms, 
and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions
`Who was it? I've a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment!'
`It was your servant, Zillah,' I replied, flinging myself on to the floor, and rapidly resuming my garments
`I should not care if you did, Mr Heathcliff; 
she richly deserves it
I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted, at my expense
Well, it is--swarming with ghosts and goblins! 
You have reason in shutting it up, I assure you
No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!'
`What do you mean?' asked Heathcliff, `and what are you doing? 
Lie down and finish out the night, since you are here; 
but, for heaven's sake! don't repeat that horrid noise; 
nothing could excuse it, unless you were having your throat cut!'
`If the little fiend had got in at the window, she probably would have strangled me!' I returned
`I'm not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again
Was not the Reverend Jabes Branderham akin to you on the mother's side? 
And that minx, Catherine Linton, or Earnshaw, or however she was called--
she must have been a changeling--wicked little soul! 
She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years: 
a just punishment for her mortal transgressions, I've no doubt!'
Scarcely were these words uttered, when I recollected the association of Heathcliff's with Catherine's name in the book,
which had completely slipped from my memory, till thus awakened
I blushed at my inconsideration; 
but, without showing further consciousness of the offence, 
I hastened to add--`The truth is, sir, 
I passed the first part of the night in'--Here I stopped afresh--
I was about to say perusing those old volumes', 
then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written, as well as their printed, contents: 
so, correcting myself, I went on, `in spelling over the name scratched on that window-ledge
A monotonous occupation, calculated to set me asleep, like counting, or--'
`What can you mean by talking in this way to me?' 
thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence
`How--how dare you, under my roof?--
God! he's mad to speak so!' And he struck his forehead with rage.
I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation; 
but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams; 
affirming I had never heard the appellation of `Catherine Linton' before, 
but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control
Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed, as I spoke; 
finally sitting down almost concealed behind it
I guessed, however, by his irregular and intercepted breathing, 
that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion
Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict, 
I continued my toilette rather noisily, looking at my watch, and soliloquized on the length of the night: 
`Not three o'clock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six
Time stagnates here: we must surely have retired to rest at eight!'
`Always at nine in winter, and always rise at four,' said my host, suppressing a groan: 
and, as I fancied, by the motion of his shadow's arm, dashing a tear from his eyes
`Mr Lockwood,' he added, `you may go into my room: you'll only be in the way, coming downstairs so early; 
and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.'
`And for me, too,' I replied
`I'll walk in the yard till daylight, and then I'll be off; 
and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion
I'm now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society, be it country or town
A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.'
`Delightful company!' muttered Heathcliff
`Take the candle, and go where you please
I shall join you directly
Keep out of the yard, though, the dogs are unchained; 
and the house--Juno mounts sentinel there, and--nay, you can only ramble about the steps and passages
But, away with you! I'll come in two minutes!'
I obeyed, so far as to quit the chamber; 
when, ignorant where the narrow lobbies led,
 I stood still, and was witness, involuntarily, to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord, 
 which belied, oddly, his apparent sense
He got on to the bed, and wrenched open the lattice, bursting, 
as he pulled at it, into an uncontrollable passion of tears
`Come in! come in!' he sobbed
`Cathy, do come
Oh do--once more! Oh! my heart's darling! 
hear me this time, Catherine, at last!' 
The spectre showed a spectre's ordinary caprice: 
it gave no sign of being; 
but the snow and wind whirled wildly through, even reaching my station, and blowing out the light.
There was such anguish in the gust of grief that accompanied this raving, 
that my compassion made me overlook its folly, 
and I drew off, half angry to have listened at all, 
and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare, since it produced that agony; 
though why, was beyond my comprehension
I descended cautiously to the lower regions, 
and landed in the back kitchen, where a gleam of fire, raked compactly together, enabled me to rekindle my candle
Nothing was stirring except a bridled, grey cat, which crept from the ashes, 
and saluted me with a querulous mew.
Two benches, shaped in sections of a circle, nearly enclosed the hearth; 
on one of these I stretched myself, and Grimalkin mounted the other
We were both of us nodding, ere anyone invaded our retreat, 
and then it was Joseph, shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof, through a trap: 
the ascent to his garret, I suppose
He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs, swept the cat from its elevation, 
and bestowing himself in the vacancy, commenced the operation of stuffing a three-inch pipe with tobacco
My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark: 
he silently applied the tube to his lips, folded his arms, and puffed away
I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed; and after sucking out his last wreath, 
and heaving a profound sigh, he got up, and departed as solemnly as he came.
A more elastic footstep entered next; 
and now I opened my mouth for a `good morning', but closed it again, 
the salutation unachieved; 
for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orisons sotto voce, in a series of curses directed against every object he touched, 
while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts
He glanced over the back of the bench, dilating his nostrils, and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat
I guessed, by his preparations, that egress was allowed, 
and, leaving my hard couch, made a movement to follow him
He noticed this, 
and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade, intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go, 
if I changed my locality;
It opened into the house, where the females were already astir, 
Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows; 
and Mrs Heathcliff, kneeling on the hearth, reading a book by the aid of the blaze
She held her hand interposed between the furnace heat and her eyes, 
and seemed absorbed in her occupation; 
desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks, or to push away a dog, 
now and then, 
that snoozled its nose over-forwardly into her face
I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also
He stood by the fire, his back towards me, just finishing a stormy scene to poor Zillah; 
who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron, and heave an indignant groan.
`And you, you worthless'--he broke out as I entered, turning to his daughter-in-law, 
and employing an epithet as harmless as duck, or sheep, but generally represented by a dash--
`There you are, at your idle tricks again! 
The rest of them do earn their bread--you live on my charity! Put your trash away, and find something to do
You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sight--do you hear, damnable jade?'
`I'll put my trash away, because you can make me, if I refuse,' answered the young lady, closing her book, 
and throwing it on a chair
`But I'll not do anything, 
though you should swear your tongue out, except what I please!'
Heathcliff lifted his hand, 
and the speaker sprang to a safer distance, 
obviously acquainted with its weight
Having no desire to be entertained by a cat-and-dog combat; 
I stepped forward briskly, as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth, 
and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute
Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities: 
Heathcliff placed his fist, out of temptation, in his pockets; 
Mrs Heathcliff curled her lip, and walked to a seat far off, 
where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay
That was not long
I declined joining their breakfast, 
and, at the first gleam of dawn, took an opportunity of escaping into the free air, 
now clear, and still, and cold as impalpable ice.
My landlord hallooed for me to stop, ere I reached the bottom of the garden, 
and offered to accompany me across the moor
It was well he did, for the whole hill-back was one billowy, white ocean; 
the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground: 
many pits, at least, were filled to a level; and entire ranges of mounds, the refuse of the quarries, 
blotted from the chart which my yesterday's walk left pictured in my mind
I had remarked on one side of the road, at intervals of six or seven yards, 
a line of upright stones, continued through the whole length of the barren: 
these were erected, and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark; 
and also when a fall, like the present, confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path: 
but, excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there, all traces of their existence had vanished: 
and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left,
when I imagined I was following, 
correctly, the windings of the road
We exchanged little conversation, 
and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park, saying, 
I could make no error there
Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow, 
and then I pushed forward, trusting to my own resources; 
for the porter's lodge is untenanted as yet
The distance from the gate to the Grange is two miles: 
I believe I managed to make it four; what with losing myself among the trees, 
and sinking up to the neck in snow: 
a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate
At any rate, whatever were my wanderings, the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house; 
and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me; 
exclaiming, tumultuously, they had completely given me up; 
everybody conjectured that I perished last night; 
and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains
I bid them be quiet, now that they saw me returned, and, benumbed to my very heart, I dragged upstairs; 
whence, after putting on dry clothes, and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes, to restore the animal heat, 
I am adjourned to my study, feeble as a kitten: 
almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant has prepared for my refreshment.
What vain weather-cocks we are! 
I, who had determined to hold myself independent of all social intercourse, 
and thanked my stars that, at length, I had lighted on a spot where it was next to impracticable--
I, weak wretch, after maintaining till dusk a struggle with low spirits and solitude, was finally compelled to strike my colours; 
and, under pretence of gaining information concerning the necessities of my establishment, 
I desired Mrs Dean, when she brought in supper, to sit down while I ate it; 
hoping sincerely she would prove a regular gossip, 
and either rouse me to animation or lull me to sleep by her talk.
`You have lived here a considerable time,' I commenced; 
`did you not say sixteen years?'
`Eighteen, sir: 
I came, when the mistress was married, to wait on her; 
after she died, the master retained me for his housekeeper.'
There ensued a pause
She was not a gossip, I feared; 
unless about her own affairs, and those could hardly interest me
However, having studied for an interval, with a fist on either knee, 
and a cloud of meditation over her ruddy countenance, she ejaculated:
`Ah, times are greatly changed since then!'
`Yes,' I remarked, `you've seen a good many alterations, I suppose?'
`I have: and troubles too,' she said.
`Oh, I'll turn the talk on my landlord's family!' I thought to myself
`A good subject to start--and that pretty girl-widow, I should like to know her history: 
whether she be a native of the country, or, 
as is more probable, an exotic that the surly indigenae will not recognize for kin.
With this intention I asked Mrs Dean why Heathcliff let Thrushcross Grange, 
and preferred living in a situation and residence so much inferior
`Is he not rich enough to keep the estate in good order?' I inquired.
`Rich, sir!' she returned
`He has, nobody knows what money, and every year it increases
Yes, yes, he's rich enough to live in a finer house than this: 
but he's very near--close-handed; and, if he had meant to flit to Thrushcross Grange, 
as soon as he heard of a good tenant he could not have borne to miss the chance of getting a few hundreds more
It is strange people should be so greedy, when they are alone in the world!'
`He had a son, it seems?'
`Yes, he had one--he is dead.'
`And, that young lady, Mrs Heathcliff, is his widow?'
`Yes.`Where did she come from originally?'
`Why, sir, she is my late master's daughter: 
Catherine Linton was her maiden name
I nursed her, poor thing! 
I did wish Mr Heathcliff would remove here, 
and then we might have been together again.
'`What! Catherine Linton?' I exclaimed, astonished
But a minute's reflection convinced me it was not my ghostly Catherine.
`Then,' I continued, `my predecessor's name was Linton?'
`And who is that Earnshaw, Hareton Earnshaw, who lives with Mr Heathcliff? are they relations?'
`No; he is the late Mrs Linton's nephew.'`The young lady's cousin, then?'
`Yes; and her husband was her cousin also: 
one on the mother's, the other on the father's side: Heathcliff married Mr Linton's sister.'
`I see the house at Wuthering Heights has "Earnshaw" carved over the front door
Are they an old family?'
`Very old, sir; 
and Hareton is the last of them, as our Miss Cathy is of us--I mean of the Lintons
Have you been to Wuthering Heights? 
I beg pardon for asking; 
but I should like to hear how she is!'
`Mrs Heathcliff? She looked very well, and very handsome; 
yet, I think, not very happy.'
`Oh dear, I don't wonder! 
And how did you like the master?' `A rough fellow, rather, Mrs Dean
Is not that his character?'
`Rough as a saw edge, and hard as whinstone! 
The less you meddle with him the better.'
`He must have had some ups and downs in life to make him such a churl
Do you know anything of his history?'
`It's a cuckoo's, sir--I know all about it: 
except where he was born, and who were his parents, and how he got his money, at first
And Hareton has been cast out like an unfledged dunnock! 
The unfortunate lad is the only one in all this parish that does not guess how he has been cheated.'
`Well, Mrs Dean, it will be a charitable deed to tell me something of my neighbours: 
I feel I shall not rest, if I go to bed; 
so be good enough to sit and chat an hour.'
`Oh, certainly, sir! 
I'll just fetch a little sewing, and then I'll sit as long as you please
But you've caught cold: 
I saw you shivering, and you must have some gruel to drive it out.'
The worthy woman bustled off, 
and I crouched nearer the fire; my head felt hot, 
and the rest of me chill: 
moreover, I was excited, almost to a pitch of foolishness, 
through my nerves and brain.This caused me to feel, not uncomfortable, 
but rather fearful of serious effects from the incidents of today and yesterday
She returned presently, bringing a smoking basin and a basket of work; 
and, having placed the former on the hob, drew in her seat, evidently pleased to find me so companionable.
Before I came to live here, she commenced--
waiting no further invitation to her story--
I was almost always at Wuthering Heights; 
because my mother had nursed Mr Hindley Earnshaw, that was Hareton's father, 
and I got used to playing with the children: 
I ran errands too, and helped to make hay, and hung about the farm ready for anything that anybody would set me to
One fine summer morning--
it was the beginning of harvest,
I remember--Mr Earnshaw, the old master, came downstairs, dressed for a journey; 
and after he had told Joseph what was to be done during the day, 
he turned to Hindley, and Cathy, 
and me--for I sat eating my porridge with them--
and he said, speaking to his son, 
`Now my bonny man, I'm going to Liverpool today, what shall I bring you? 
You may choose what you like: 
only let it be little, for I shall walk there and back: 
sixty miles each way, that is a long spell!' Hindley named a fiddle, 
and then he asked Miss Cathy; 
she was hardly six years old, but she could ride any horse in the stable, 
and she chose a whip
He did not forget me; 
for he had a kind heart, 
though he was rather severe sometimes
He promised to bring me a pocketful of apples and pears, 
and then he kissed his children goodbye and set off.
It seemed a long while to us all--
the three days of his absence--
and often did little Cathy ask when he would be home
Mrs Earnshaw expected him by supper time on the third evening, 
and she put the meal off hour after hour; 
there were no signs of his coming, however, 
and at last the children got tired of running down to the gate to look
Then it grew dark; 
she would have had them to bed, 
but they begged sadly to be allowed to stay up; 
and, just about eleven o'clock, 
the door latch was raised quietly and in stepped the master
He threw himself into a chair, laughing and groaning, 
and bid them all stand off, for he was nearly killed--
he would not have such another walk for the three kingdoms.
`And at the end of it, to be flighted to death!' he said, opening his greatcoat, 
which he held bundled up in his arms
`See here, wife! 
I was never so beaten with anything in my life: 
but you must e'en take it as a gift of God; 
though it's as dark almost as if it came from the devil.'
We crowded round, and over Miss Cathy's head, 
I had a peep at a dirty, ragged, black-haired child; 
big enough both to walk and talk: 
indeed, its face looked older than Catherine's; 
yet, when it was set on its feet, 
it only stared round, and repeated over and over again some gibberish, 
that nobody could understand
I was frightened, and Mrs Earnshaw was ready to fling it out of doors: 
she did fly up, asking how he could fashion to bring that gipsy brat into the house, 
when they had their own bairns to feed and fend for? 
What he meant to do with it, and whether he were mad? 
The master tried to explain the matter; 
but he was really half dead with fatigue, 
and all that I could make out, amongst her scolding, was a tale of his seeing it starving, 
and houseless, and as good as dumb, in the streets of Liverpool; 
where he picked it up and inquired for its owner
Not a soul knew to whom it belonged, he said; 
and his money and time being both limited, 
he thought it better to take it home with him at once, than run into vain expenses there: 
because he was determined he would not leave it as he found it
Well, the conclusion was that my mistress grumbled herself calm; 
and Mr Earnshaw told me to wash it, 
and give it clean things, 
and let it sleep with the children.
Hindley and Cathy contented themselves with looking and listening till peace was restored: 
then, both began searching their father's pockets for the presents he had promised them
The former was a boy of fourteen, 
but when he drew out what had been a fiddle crushed to morsels in the greatcoat, 
he blubbered aloud; and Cathy, 
when she learned the master had lost her whip in attending on the stranger, 
showed her humour by grinning and spitting at the stupid little thing; 
earning for her pains a sound blow from her father to teach her cleaner manners
They entirely refused to have it in bed with them, 
or even in their room; and I had no more sense, 
so I put it on the landing of the stairs, hoping it might be gone on the morrow
By chance, 
or else attracted by hearing his voice, 
it crept to Mr Earnshaw's door, 
and there he found it on quitting his chamber
Inquiries were made as to how it got there; 
I was obliged to confess, 
and in recompense for my cowardice and inhumanity was sent out of the house.
This was Heathcliff's first introduction to the family
On coming back a few days afterwards 
I found they had christened him `Heathcliff': 
it was the name of a son who died in childhood, 
and it has served him ever since, both for Christian and surname
Miss Cathy and he were now very thick; 
but Hindley hated him! and to say the truth I did the same; 
and we plagued and went on with him shamefully: 
for I wasn't reasonable enough to feel my injustice, 
and the mistress never put in a word on his behalf when she saw him wronged.
He seemed a sullen, patient child; 
hardened, perhaps, to ill-treatment: 
he would stand Hindley's blows without winking or shedding a tear, 
and my pinches moved him only to draw in a breath and open his eyes, 
as if he had hurt himself by accident and nobody was to blame
This endurance made old Earnshaw furious, 
when he discovered his son persecuting the poor, fatherless child, 
as he called him
He took to Heathcliff strangely, believing all he said , 
and petting him up far above Cathy, 
who was too mischievous and wayward for a favourite.
So, from the very beginning, he bred bad feeling in the house; 
and at Mrs Earnshaw's death, which happened in less than two years after, 
the young master had learned to regard his father as an oppressor rather than a friend, 
and Heathcliff as a usurper of his parent's affections and his privileges; 
and he grew bitter with brooding over these injuries
I sympathized awhile; 
but when the children fell ill of the measles, 
and I had to tend them, and take on me the cares of a woman at once, 
I changed my ideas
Heathcliff was dangerously sick: 
and while he lay at the worst he would have me constantly by his pillow: 
I suppose he felt I did a good deal for him, and he hadn't wit to guess that I was compelled to do it
However, I will say this, he was the quietest child that ever nurse watched over
The difference between him and the others forced me to be less partial
Cathy and her brother harassed me terribly: 
he was as uncomplaining as a lamb; 
though hardness, not gentleness, made him give little trouble.
He got through, and the doctor affirmed it was in a great measure owing to me, and praised me for my care
I was vain of his commendations, 
and softened towards the being by whose means I earned them, 
and thus Hindley lost his last ally: 
still I couldn't dote on Heathcliff, 
and I wondered often what my master saw to admire so much in the sullen boy, 
who never, to my recollection, repaid his indulgence by any sign of gratitude
He was not insolent to his benefactor, he was simply insensible; 
though knowing perfectly the hold he had on his heart, 
and conscious he had only to speak and all the house would be obliged to bend to his wishes
As an instance, I remember Mr Earnshaw once bought a couple of colts at the parish fair, and gave the lads each one
Heathcliff took the handsomest, 
but it soon fell lame, and when he discovered it, he said to Hindley--
`You must exchange horses with me: 
I don't like mine; 
and if you won't I shall tell your father of the three thrashings you've given me this week, 
and show him my arm, which is black to the shoulder.' Hindley put out his tongue and cuffed him over the ears
`You'd better do it at once,' he persisted, escaping to the porch : 
`you will have to; 
and if I speak of these blows, you'll get them again with interest.' `Off, dog!' cried Hindley, 
threatening him with an iron weight used for weighing potatoes and hay
`Throw it,' he replied, standing still, `
and then I'll tell how you boasted that you would turn me out of doors as soon as he died, 
and see whether he will not turn you out directly.' Hindley threw it, hitting him on the breast, 
and down he fell, but staggered up immediately, breathless and white; 
and, had not I prevented it, 
he would have gone just so to the master, 
and got full revenge by letting his condition plead for him, intimating who had caused it
`Take my colt, gipsy, then!' said young Earnshaw
`And I pray that he may break your neck: take him, and be damned, you beggarly interloper! 
and wheedle my father out of all he has: 
only afterwards show him what you are, imp of Satan.--
And take that, I hope he'll kick out your brains!'
¡¡¡¡Heathcliff had gone to loose the beast, and shift it to his own stall; 
he was passing behind it, when Hindley finished his speech by knocking him under its feet, 
and without stopping to examine whether his hopes were fulfilled, ran away as fast as he could
I was surprised to witness how coolly the child gathered himself up, and went on with his intention; 
exchanging saddles and all, 
and then sitting down on a bundle of hay to overcome the qualm which the violent blow occasioned, 
before he entered the house
I persuaded him easily to let me lay the blame of his bruises on the horse: he minded little what tale was told since he had what he wanted
He complained so seldom, indeed, of such stirs as these, 
that I really thought him not vindictive: 
I was deceived completely, as you will hear.
In the course of time, Mr Earnshaw began to fail
He had been active and healthy, yet his strength left him suddenly; 
and when he was confined to the chimney comer he grew grievously irritable
A nothing vexed him; 
and suspected slights of his authority nearly threw him into fits
This was especially to be remarked if anyone attempted to impose upon, 
or domineer over, his favourite: 
he was painfully jealous lest a word should be spoken amiss to him; 
seeming to have got into his head the notion that, 
because he liked Heathcliff, all hated, and longed to do him an ill turn
It was a disadvantage to the lad; 
for the kinder among us did not wish to fret the master, so we humoured his partiality; 
and that humouring was rich nourishment to the child's pride and black tempers
Still it became in a manner necessary; 
twice, or thrice, Hindley's manifestation of scorn, while his father was near, roused the old man to a fury: 
he seized his stick to strike him, and shook with rage that he could not do it.
At last, our curate , 
he advised that the young man should be sent to college; 
and Mr Earnshaw agreed, though with a heavy spirit, 
for he said--`Hindley was nought, and would never thrive as where he wandered.'
I hoped heartily we should have peace now
It hurt me to think the master should be made uncomfortable by his own good deed
I fancied the discontent of age and disease arose from his family disagreements: 
as he would have it that it did: 
really, you know, sir, it was in his sinking frame
We might have got on tolerably, notwithstanding, 
but for two people, Miss Cathy and Joseph, the servant: 
you saw him, I dare say, up yonder
He was, and is yet most likely, 
the wearisomest self-righteous Pharisee that ever ransacked a Bible to rake the promises to himself and fling the curses on his neighbours
By his knack of sermonizing and pious discoursing, 
he contrived to make a great impression on Mr Earnshaw; 
and the more feeble the master became, 
the more influence he gained
He was relentless in worrying him about his soul's concerns, 
and about ruling his children rigidly
He encouraged him to regard Hindley as a reprobate; 
and, night after night, he regularly grumbled out a long string of tales against Heathcliff and Catherine: 
always minding to flatter Earnshaw's weakness by heaping the heaviest blame on the last.
Certainly, she had ways with her such as I never saw a child take up before; 
and she put all of us past our patience fifty times and oftener in a day: 
from the hour she came downstairs till the hour she went to bed, 
we had not a minute's security that she wouldn't be in mischief
Her spirits were always at high-water mark, 
her tongue always going--singing, laughing, 
and plaguing everybody who would not do the same
A wild, wicked slip she was--
but she had the bonniest eye, the sweetest smile, 
and lightest foot in the parish; 
and, after all, I believe she meant no harm; 
for when once she made you cry in good earnest, 
it seldom happened that she would not keep you company, 
and oblige you to be quiet that you might comfort her
She was much too fond of Heathcliff
The greatest punishment we could invent for her was to keep her separate from him: 
yet she got chided more than any of us on his account
In play, she liked exceedingly to act the little mistress; 
using her hands freely, and commanding her companions: 
she did so to me, 
but I would not bear shopping and ordering; and so I let her know.
Now, Mr Earnshaw did not understand jokes from his children: 
he had always been strict and grave with them; 
and Catherine, on her part, had no idea why her father should be crosser and less patient in his ailing condition, than he was in his prime
His peevish reproofs wakened in her a naughty delight to provoke him: 
she was never so happy as when we were all scolding her at once, 
and she defying us with her bold, saucy look, 
and her ready words turning Joseph's religious curses into ridicule, baiting me, 
and doing just what her father hated most--
showing how her pretended insolence, which he thought real, had more power over Heathcliff than his kindness: 
how the boy would do her bidding in anything, and his only when it suited his own inclination
After behaving as badly as possible all day, 
she sometimes came fondling to make it up at night
`Nay, Cathy,' the old man would say, `I cannot love thee; thou'rt worse than thy brother
Go, say thy prayers, child, and ask God's pardon
I doubt thy mother and I must rue that we ever reared thee!' That made her cry, at first: 
and then being repulsed continually hardened her, 
and she laughed if I told her to say she was sorry for her faults, and beg to be forgiven.
But the hour came, at last, 
that ended Mr Earnshaw's troubles on earth
He died quietly in his chair one October evening, seated by the fireside
A high wind blustered round the house, and roared in the chimney: 
it sounded wild and stormy, yet it was not cold, 
and we were all together--I, a little removed from the hearth, busy at my knitting, 
and Joseph reading his Bible near the table (for the servants generally sat in the house then, after their work was done)
Miss Cathy had been sick, and that made her still; 
she leant against her father's knee, and Heathcliff was lying on the floor with his head in her lap
I remember the master, before he fell into a doze, stroking her bonny hair it pleased him rarely to see her gentle--
and saying--`Why canst thou not always be a good lass, Cathy?' 
And she turned her face up to his, and laughed, 
and answered, `Why cannot you always be a good man, father?' 
But as soon as she saw him vexed again, she kissed his hand, and said she would sing him to sleep
She began singing very low, till his fingers dropped from hers, and his head sank on his breast
Then I told her to hush, and not stir, for fear she should wake him
We all kept as mute as mice a full half-hour, 
and should have done longer, 
only Joseph, having finished his chapter, got up and said that he must rouse the master for prayers and bed
He stepped forward, and called him by name, and touched his shoulder; 
but he would not move, so he took the candle and looked at him
I thought there was something wrong as he set down the light; 
and seizing the children each by an arm, whispered them to `frame upstairs, 
and make little din--they might pray alone that evening--he had summut to do'.
`I shall bid father good night first,' said Catherine, putting her arms round his neck, 
before we could hinder her
The poor thing discovered her loss directly--she screamed out--`Oh, he's dead, Heathcliff! he's dead!' 
And they both set up a heart-breaking cry.
I joined my wail to theirs, loud and bitter; 
but Joseph asked what we could be thinking of to roar in that way over a saint in heaven
He told me to put on my cloak and run to Gimmerton for the doctor and the parson
I could not guess the use that either would be of, then
However, I went, through wind and rain, and brought one, the doctor, back with me; 
the other said he would come in the morning
leaving Joseph to explain matters, I ran to the children's room: 
their door was ajar, I saw they had never laid down, though it was past midnight; 
but they were calmer, and did not need me to console them
The little souls were comforting each other with better thoughts than I could have hit on: 
no parson in the world ever pictured heaven so beautifully as they did, in their innocent talk: 
and, while I sobbed and listened, I could not help wishing we were all there safe together.
Mr Hindley came home to the funeral; 
and--a thing that amazed us, 
and set the neighbours gossiping right and left--he brought a wife with him
What she was, and where she was born, he never informed us: 
probably she had neither money nor name to recommend her, 
or he would scarcely have kept the union from his father.
She was not one that would have disturbed the house much on her own account
Every object she saw, the moment she crossed the threshold, appeared to delight her; 
and every circumstance that took place about her: 
except the preparing for the burial, and the presence of the mourners
I thought she was half silly, from her behaviour while that went on: 
she ran into her chamber, 
and made me come with her, though I should have been dressing the children; 
and there she sat shivering and clasping her hands, and asking repeatedly: 
`Are they gone yet?' Then she began describing with hysterical emotion the effect it produced on her to see black; 
and started, and trembled, and, at last, fell a-weeping-and when I asked what was the matter? 
answered, she didn't know; 
but she felt so afraid of dying! 
I imagined her as little likely to die as myself
She was rather thin, but young, and fresh-complexioned, 
and her eyes sparkled as bright as diamonds
I did remark, to be sure, that mounting the stairs made her breathe very quick: 
that the least sudden noise set her all in a quiver, and that she coughed troublesomely sometimes: 
but I knew nothing of what these symptoms portended, and had no impulse to sympathize with her
We don't in general take to foreigners here, Mr Lockwood, unless they take to us first.
Young Earnshaw was altered considerably in the three years of his absence
He had grown sparer, and lost his colour, and spoke and dressed quite differently; 
and, on the very day of his return, 
he told Joseph and me we must thenceforth quarter ourselves in the back kitchen, and leave the house for him
Indeed, he would have carpeted and papered a small spare room for a parlour; 
but his wife expressed such pleasure at the white floor and huge glowing fireplace, 
at the pewter dishes and delf case, and dog kennel, and the wide space there was to move about in where they usually sat, 
that he thought it unnecessary to her comfort, and so dropped the intention.
She expressed pleasure, too, at finding a sister among her new acquaintance; 
and she prattled to Catherine, and kissed her, and ran about with her, and gave her quantities of presents, at the beginning
Her affection tired very soon, however, and when she grew peevish, Hindley became tyrannical
A few words from her, evincing a dislike to Heathcliff, were enough to rouse in him all his old hatred of the boy
He drove him from their company to the servants, deprived him of the instructions of the curate, 
and insisted that he should labour out of doors instead; 
compelling him to do so as hard as any other lad on the farm.
Heathcliff bore his degradation pretty well at first, 
because Cathy taught him what she learnt, and worked or played with him in the fields
They both promised fair to grow up as rude as savages; 
the young master being entirely negligent how they behaved, and what they did, so they kept clear of him
He would not even have seen after their going to church on Sundays, 
only Joseph and the curate reprimanded his carelessness when they absented themselves; 
and that reminded him to order Heathcliff a flogging, and Catherine a fast from dinner or supper
But it was one of their chief amusements to run away to the moors in the morning and remain there all day, 
and the after punishment grew a mere thing to laugh at
The curate might set as many chapters as he pleased for Catherine to get by heart, 
and Joseph might thrash Heathcliff till his arm ached; they forgot everything the minute they were together again: 
at least the minute they had contrived some naughty plan of revenge;
and many a time I've cried to myself to watch them growing more reckless daily, 
and I not daring to speak a syllable, for fear of losing the small power I still retained over the unfriended creatures
One Sunday evening, it chanced that they were banished from the sitting-room, for making a noise, 
or a light offence of the kind; 
and when I went to call them to supper, 
I could discover them nowhere
We searched the house, above and below, and the yard and stables; 
they were invisible: and at last, Hindley in a passion told us to bolt the doors, 
and swore nobody should let them in that night
The household went to bed; 
and I' too anxious to lie down, opened my lattice and put my head out to hearken, 
though it rained: determined to admit them in spite of the prohibition, should they return
In a while, I distinguished steps coming up the road, and the light of a lantern glimmered through the gate
I threw a shawl over my head and ran to prevent them from waking Mr Earnshaw by knocking
There was Heathcliff, by himself: 
it gave me a start to see him alone.
`Where is Miss Catherine?' I cried hurriedly
`No accident, I hope?'
`At Thrushcross Grange,' he answered; `and I would have been there too, 
but they had not the manners to ask me to stay
`Well, you will catch it!' I said: `you'll never be content till you're sent about your business
What in the world led you wandering to Thrushcross Grange?'
`Let me get off my wet clothes, and I'll tell you all about it, Nelly,' he replied
I bid him beware of rousing the master, and while he undressed and I waited to put out the candle, 
he continued--`Cathy and I escaped from the wash-house to have a ramble at liberty, 
and getting a glimpse of the Grange lights, 
we thought we would just go and see whether the Lintons passed their Sunday evenings standing shivering in corners, 
while their father and mother sat eating and drinking, and singing and laughing; 
and burning their eyes out before the fire
Do you think they do? Or reading sermons, and being catechized by their manservant, 
and set to learn a column of Scripture names, if they don't answer properly?'
`Probably not,' I responded
`They are good children, no doubt, 
and don't deserve the treatment you receive, for your bad conduct.'
`Don't you cant, Nelly,' he said: 
`nonsense! We ran from the top of the Heights to the park, without stopping--Catherine completely beaten in the race, because she was barefoot
You'll have to seek for her shoes in the bog tomorrow
We crept through a broken hedge, groped our way up the path, 
and planted ourselves on a flower plot under the drawing-room window
The light came from thence; 
they had not put up the shutters, and the curtains were only half closed
Both of us were able to look in by standing on the basement, and clinging to the ledge, and we saw--ah! 
it was beautiful--a splendid place carpeted with crimson, and crimson-covered chairs and tables, 
and a pure white ceiling bordered by gold, a shower of glass drops hanging in silver chains from the centre, and shimmering with little soft tapers
Old Mr and Mrs Linton were not there; 
Edgar and his sister had it entirely to themselves
Shouldn't they have been happy? 
We should have thought ourselves in heaven! 
And now, guess what your good children were doing? 
Isabella--I believe she is eleven, a year younger than Cathy--lay screaming at the farther end of the room, 
shrieking as if witches were running red-hot needles into her
Edgar stood on the hearth weeping silently, 
and in the middle of the table sat a little dog, shaking its paw and yelping; 
which, from their mutual accusations, we understood they had nearly pulled in two between them
The idiots! That was their pleasure! 
to quarrel who should hold a heap of warm hair, 
and each begin to cry because both, after struggling to get it, refused to take it
We laughed outright at the petted things; 
we did despise them! 
When would you catch me wishing to have what Catherine wanted? 
or find us by ourselves, seeking entertainment in yelling, and sobbing, and rolling on the ground, divided by the whole room? 
I'd not exchange, for a thousand lives, my condition here, for Edgar Linton's at Thrushcross Grange--
not if I might have the privilege of flinging--Joseph off the highest gable, and painting the house-front with Hindley's blood!'
`Hush, hush!' I interrupted
`Still you have not told me, Heathcliff, how Catherine is left behind?'
`I told you we laughed,' he answered
`The Lintons heard us, and with one accord, they shot like arrows to the door; 
there was silence, and then a cry, "Oh, mamma, mamma! Oh, papa! Oh, mamma, come here
Oh, papa, oh!" They really did howl out something in that way
We made frightful noises to terrify them still more, and then we dropped off the ledge, 
because somebody was drawing the bars, and we felt we had better flee
I had Cathy by the hand, and was urging her on, when all at once she fell down
"Run, Heathcliff, run!" she whispered
"They have let the bulldog loose, and he holds me!" The devil had seized her ankle, Nelly: 
I heard his abominable snorting
She did not yell out--no! 
she would have scorned to do it, 
if she had been spitted on the horns of a mad cow
I did, though! 
I vociferated curses enough to annihilate any fiend in Christendom; 
and I got a store and thrust it between his jaws, and tried with all my might to cram it down his throat
A beast of a servant came up with a lantern, at last, shouting--"Keep fast, Skulker, keep fast!" He changed his note, however--when he saw Skulker's game
The dog was throttled off; 
his huge, purple tongue hanging half a foot out of his mouth, 
and his pendent lips streaming with bloody slaver
The man took Cathy up: she was sick: 
not from fear, I'm certain, but from pain
He carried her in; 
I followed, grumbling execrations and vengeance
"What prey, Robert?" hallooed Linton from the entrance
"Skulker has caught a little girl, sir," he replied; 
"and there's a lad here", he added, making a clutch at me, "who looks an out-and-outer! 
Very like, the robbers were for putting them through the window to open the doors to the gang after all were asleep, 
that they might murder us at their ease
Hold your tongue, you foul-mouthed thief, you! 
you shall go to the gallows for this
Mr Linton, sir, don't lay by your gun." "No, no, Robert," said the old fool
"The rascals knew that yesterday was my rent day: 
they thought to have me cleverly
Come in; I'll furnish them a reception
There, John, fasten the chain
Give Skulker some water, Jenny
To beard a magistrate in his stronghold, and on the Sabbath, too! 
Where will their insolence stop? 
Oh, my dear Mary, look here! 
Don't be afraid, it is but a boy--yet the villain scowls so plainly in his face; 
would it not be a kindness to the country to hang him at once, 
before he shows his nature in acts as well as features?"
 He pulled me under the chandelier, 
 and Mrs Linton placed her spectacles on her nose and raised her hands in horror
The cowardly children crept nearer also, Isabella lisping--"Frightful thing! 
Put him in the cellar, papa
He's exactly like the son of the fortune-teller that stole my tame pheasant
Isn't he, Edgar?"
`While they examined me, Cathy came round; 
she heard the last speech, and laughed
Edgar Linton, after an inquisitive stare, 
collected sufficient wit to recognize her
They see us at church, you know, 
though we seldom meet them elsewhere
"That's Miss Earnshaw!" 
he whispered to his mother, "and look how Skulker has bitten her--how her foot bleeds!"
"Miss Earnshaw? Nonsense!" cried the dame; 
"Miss Earnshaw scouring the country with a gipsy! 
And yet, my dear, the child is in mourning--surely it is--and she may be lamed for life!"
"What culpable carelessness in her brother!" 
exclaimed Mr Linton, turning from me to Catherine
"I've understood from Shielders" 
"that he lets her grow up in absolute heathenism
But who is this? Where did she pick up this companion? 
Oho! I declare he is that strange acquisition my late neighbour made, 
in his journey to Liverpool--a little Lascar, or an American or Spanish castaway."
"A wicked boy, at all events," remarked the old lady, "and quite unfit for a decent house! 
Did you notice his language, Linton? 
I'm shocked that my children should have heard it."
`I recommenced cursing--don't be angry, Nelly--and so Robert was ordered to take me off
I refused to go without Cathy; 
he dragged me into the garden, pushed the lantern into my hand, assured me that Mr Earnshaw should be informed of my behaviour, 
and, bidding me march directly, secured the door again
The curtains were still looped up at one comer, 
and I resumed my station as spy; because, if Catherine had wished to return, 
I intended shattering their great glass panes to a million of fragments, unless they let her out
She sat on the sofa quietly
Mrs Linton took off the grey cloak of the dairymaid which we had borrowed for our excursion, shaking her head and expostulating with her, I suppose: 
she was a young lady, and they made a distinction between her treatment and mine
Then the woman-servant brought a basin of warm water, and washed her feet; 
and Mr Linton mixed a tumbler of negus, and Isabella emptied a plateful of cakes into her lap, and Edgar stood gaping at a distance
Afterwards, they dried and combed her beautiful hair, and gave her a pair of enormous slippers, and wheeled her to the fire; 
and I left her, as merry as she could be, dividing her food between the little dog and Skulker, whose nose she pinched as he ate; 
and kindling a spark of spirit in the vacant blue eyes of the Lintons--a dim reflection from her own enchanting face
I saw they were full of stupid admiration; 
she is so immeasurably superior to them--to everybody on earth, is she not, Nelly?'
`There will more come of this business than you reckon on,' I answered, covering him up and extinguishing the light
`You are incurable, Heathcliff; 
and Mr Hindley will have to proceed to extremities, see if he won't.' My words came truer than I desired
The luckless adventure made Earnshaw furious
And then Mr Linton, to mend matters, paid us a visit himself on the morrow; 
and read the young master such a lecture on the road he guided his family, that he was stirred to look about him, in earnest
Heathcliff received no flogging, but he was told that the first word he spoke to Miss Catherine should ensure a dismissal; 
and Mrs Earnshaw undertook to keep her sister-in-law in due restraint when she returned home; 
employing art, not force: with force she would have found it impossible.
Cathy stayed at Thrushcross Grange five weeks: till Christmas
By that time her ankle was thoroughly cured, and her manners much improved
The mistress visited her often in the interval, 
and commenced her plan of reform by trying to raise her self-respect with fine clothes and flattery, which she took readily; 
so that, instead of a wild, hatless little savage jumping into the house, and rushing to squeeze us all breathless, 
there alighted from a handsome black pony a very dignified person, 
with brown ringlets falling from the cover of a feathered beaver, 
and a long cloth habit, which she was obliged to hold up with both hands that she might sail in
Hindley lifted her from her horse, exclaiming delightedly, `Why, Cathy, you are quite a beauty! 
I should scarcely have known you: you look like a lady now
Isabella Linton is not to be compared with her, is she, Frances?'
`Isabella has not her natural advantages,' replied his wife:
`but she must mind and not grow wild again here
Ellen, help Miss Catherine off with her things--stay, dear, 
you will disarrange your curls--let me untie your hat.'
I removed the habit, and there shone forth, beneath a grand plaid silk frock, white trousers, and burnished shoes; 
and, while her eyes sparkled joyfully when the dogs came bounding up to welcome her, 
she dare hardly touch them lest they should fawn upon her splendid garments
She kissed me gently: I was all flour making the Christmas cake, and it would not have done to give me a hug; 
and, then, she looked round for Heathcliff
Mr and Mrs Earnshaw watched anxiously their meeting; 
thinking it would enable them to judge, in some measure, what grounds they had for hoping to succeed in separating the two friends.
Heathcliff was hard to discover, at first
If he were careless, and uncared for, before Catherine's absence, 
he had been ten times more so, since
Nobody but I even did him the kindness to call him a dirty boy, and bid him wash himself, once a week; 
and children of his age seldom have a natural pleasure in soap and water
Therefore, not to mention his clothes, which had seen three months' service in mire and dust, 
and his thick uncombed hair, the surface of his face and hands was dismally beclouded
He might well skulk behind the settle, on beholding such a bright, graceful damsel enter the house, 
instead of a rough-headed counterpart of himself, as he expected
`Is Heathcliff not here?' she demanded, pulling off her gloves, 
and displaying fingers wonderfully whitened with doing nothing and staying indoors.
`Heathcliff, you may come forward,' cried Mr Hindley, enjoying his discomfiture, 
and gratified to see what a forbidding young blackguard he would be compelled to present himself
`You may come and wish Miss Catherine welcome, like the other servants.'
Cathy, catching a glimpse of her friend in his concealment, flew to embrace him; 
she bestowed seven or eight kisses on his cheek within the second, 
and then stopped, and drawing back, burst into a laugh, exclaiming, `Why, how very black and cross you look! and how--how funny and grim! 
But that's because I'm used to Edgar and Isabella Linton
Well, Heathcliff, have you forgotten me?'
She had some reason to put the question, for shame and pride threw double gloom over his countenance, and kept him immovable.
`Shake hands, Heathcliff,' said Mr Earnshaw, condescendingly;
 `once in a way, that is permitted.'
`I shall not,' replied the boy, finding his tongue at last; 
`I shall not stand to be laughed at
I shall not bear it!'
And he would have broken from the circle, 
but Miss Cathy seized him again.
`I did not mean to laugh at you,' she said; 
`I could not hinder myself: Heathcliff, shake hands at least! 
What are you sulky for? It was only that you looked odd
If you wash your face and brush your hair, 
it will be all right: 
but you are so dirty!'
She gazed concernedly at the dusky fingers she held in her own, 
and also at her dress; 
which she feared had gained no embellishment from its contact with his.
`You needn't have touched me!' he answered, 
following her eye and snatching away his hand
`I shall be as dirty as I please: 
and I like to be dirty, and I will be dirty.'
With that he dashed head foremost out of the room, amid the merriment of the master and mistress, 
and to the serious disturbance of Catherine; 
who could not comprehend how her remarks should have produced such an exhibition of bad temper.
After playing lady's-maid to the newcomer, 
and putting my cakes in the oven, and making the house and kitchen cheerful with great fires, 
befitting Christmas eve, 
I prepared to sit down and amuse myself by singing carols, all alone; 
regardless of Joseph's affirmations that he considered the merry tunes I chose as next door to songs
He had retired to private prayer in his chamber, 
and Mr and Mrs Earnshaw were engaging Missy's attention by sundry gay trifles bought for her to present to the little Lintons, 
as an acknowledgment of their kindness
They had invited them to spend the morrow at Wuthering Heights, 
and the invitation had been accepted, 
on one condition: 
Mrs Linton begged that her darlings must be kept carefully apart from that `naughty swearing boy'.
Under these circumstances I remained solitary
I smelt the rich scent of the heating spices; 
and admired the shining kitchen utensils, the polished clock, decked in holly, 
the silver mugs ranged on a tray ready to be filled with mulled ale for supper; and above all, 
the speckless purity of my particular care--the scoured and well-swept floor
I gave due inward applause to every object, 
and then I remembered how old Earnshaw used to come in when all was tidied, 
and call me a cant lass, and slip a shilling into my hand as a Christmas box; 
and from that I went on to think of his fondness for Heathcliff, 
and his dread lest he should suffer neglect after death had removed him; 
and that naturally led me to consider the poor lad's situation now, and from singing I changed my mind to crying
It struck me soon, however, there would be more sense in endeavouring to repair some of his wrongs than shedding tears over them: 
I got up and walked into the court to seek him
He was not far; 
I found him smoothing the glossy coat of the new pony in the stable, 
and feeding the other beasts, according to custom.
`Make haste, Heathcliff!' I said, `the kitchen is so comfortable; 
and Joseph is upstairs: 
make haste, and let me dress you smart before Miss Cathy comes out, 
and then you can sit together, with the whole hearth to yourselves, and have a long chatter till bedtime.'
He proceeded with his task and never turned his head towards me.
`Come--are you coming?' I continued
`There's a little cake for each of you, nearly enough; 
and you'll need half an hour's donning.'
I waited five minutes, but getting no answer, left him
Catherine supped with her brother and sister-in-law: 
Joseph and I joined in an unsociable meal, seasoned with reproofs on one side and sauciness on the other
His cake and cheese remained on the table all night for the fairies
He managed to continue work till nine o'clock, and then marched dumb and dour to his chamber
Cathy sat up late, having a world of things to order for the reception of her new friends: 
she came into the kitchen once to speak to her old one; 
but he was gone, and she only stayed to ask what was the matter with him, and then went back
In the morning he rose early; 
and as it was a holiday carried his ill humour on to the moors; 
not reappearing till the family were departed for church
Fasting and reflection seemed to have brought him to a better spirit
He hung about me for a while, and having screwed up his courage, exclaimed abruptly:
`Nelly, make me decent, I'm going to be good.'
`High time, Heathcliff,' I said; `you have grieved Catherine: 
she's sorry she ever came home, I dare say! 
It looks as if you envied her, because she is more thought of than you.'
The notion of envying Catherine was incomprehensible to him, but the notion of grieving her he understood clearly enough.
`Did she say she was grieved?' he inquired, looking very serious
`She cried when I told her you were off again this morning.'
`Well, I cried last night,' he returned, `and I had more reason to cry than she.'
`Yes: you had the reason of going to bed with a proud heart and an empty stomach,' said I
`Proud people breed sad sorrows for themselves
But, if you be ashamed of your touchiness, you must ask pardon, mind, when she comes in
You must go up and offer to kiss her, and say--you know best what to say; 
only do it heartily, and not as if you thought her converted into a stranger by her grand dress
And now, though I have dinner to get ready, 
I'll steal time to arrange you so that Edgar Linton shall look quite a doll beside you: 
and that he does
You are younger, and yet, I'll be bound, you are taller and twice as broad across the shoulders: 
you could knock him down in a twinkling? don't you feel that you could?'
Heathcliff's face brightened a moment; then it was overcast afresh, and he sighed.
`But, Nelly, if I knocked him down twenty times, 
that wouldn't make him less handsome or me more so
I wish I had light hair and a fair skin, and was dressed and behaved as well, 
and had a chance of being as rich as he will be!'
`And cried for mamma at every turn,' I added, `and trembled if a country lad heaved his fist against you, 
and sat at home all day for a shower of rain
Oh, Heathcliff, you are showing a poor spirit! 
Come to the glass, and I'll let you see what you should wish
Do you mark those two lines between your eyes; 
and those thick brows, that instead of rising arched, sink in the middle; 
and that couple of black fiends, so deeply buried, who never open their windows boldly, 
but lurk glinting under them, like devil's spies? 
Wish and learn to smooth away the surly wrinkles, to raise your lids frankly, 
and change the fiends to confident, innocent angels, suspecting and doubting nothing, 
and always seeing friends where they are not sure of foes
Don't get the expression of a vicious cur that appears to know the kicks it gets are its desert, 
and yet hates all the world as well as the kicker, for what it suffers.'
`In other words, I must wish for Edgar Linton's great blue eyes and even forehead,' he replied
`I do--and that won't help me to them.'
`A good heart will help you to a bonny face, my lad,' I continued, 
`if you were a regular black; 
and a bad one will turn the bonniest into something worse than ugly
And now that we've done washing, and combing, 
and sulking--tell me whether you don't think yourself rather handsome? 
I'll tell you, I do
You're fit for a prince in disguise
Who knows but your father was Emperor of China, 
and your mother an Indian queen, 
each of them able to buy up, with one week's income, Wuthering Heights and Thrushcross Grange together? 
And you were kidnapped by wicked sailors and brought to England
Were I in your place, I would frame high notions of my birth; 
and the thoughts of what I was should give me courage and dignity to support the oppressions of a little farmer!'
So I chattered on; 
and Heathcliff gradually lost his frown and began to look quite pleasant, 
when all at once our conversation was interrupted by a rumbling sound moving up the road and entering the court
He ran to the window and I to the door, just in time to behold the two Lintons descend from the family carriage, 
smothered in cloaks and furs, and the Earnshaws dismount from their horses: 
they often rode to church in winter
Catherine took a hand of each of the children, 
and brought them into the house and set them before the fire, which quickly put colour into their white faces.
I urged my companion to hasten now and show his amiable humour, and he willingly obeyed; 
but ill luck would have it that, as he opened the door leading from the kitchen on one side, Hindley opened it on the other
They met, and the master, irritated at seeing him clean and cheerful; 
or, perhaps, eager to keep his promise to Mrs Linton, shoved him back with a sudden thrust, 
and angrily bade Joseph `keep the fellow out of the room--send him into the garret till dinner is over
He'll be cramming his fingers in the tarts and stealing the fruit, if left alone with them a minute.'
`Nay, sir,' I could not avoid answering, `he'll touch nothing, not he: 
and I suppose he must have his share of the dainties as well as we.'
`He shall have his share of my hand, if I catch him downstairs again till dark,' cried Hindley
`Begone, you vagabond! What! you are attempting the coxcomb, are you? 
Wait till I get hold of those elegant locks--see if I won't pull them a bit longer.'
`They are long enough, already,' observed Master Linton, peeping from the doorway; 
`I wonder they don't make his head ache
It's like a colt's mane over his eyes!'
He ventured his remark without any intention to insult; 
but Heathcliff's violent nature was not prepared to endure the appearance of impertinence from one whom he seemed to hate, even then, as a rival
He seized a tureen of hot apple sauce and dashed it full against the speaker's face and neck; 
who instantly commenced a lament that brought Isabella and Catherine hurrying to the place
Mr Earnshaw snatched up the culprit directly and conveyed him to his chamber; 
where, doubtless, he administered a rough remedy to cool the fit of passion, for he reappeared red and breathless
I got the dish-cloth and rather spitefully scrubbed Edgar's nose and mouth, affirming it served him right for meddling
His sister began weeping to go home, and Cathy stood by confounded, blushing for all.
`You should not have spoken to him!' 
she expostulated with Master Linton
`He was in a bad temper, and now you've spoilt your visit; 
and he'll be flogged: 
I hate him to be flogged! 
I can't eat my dinner
Why did you speak to him, Edgar?'
`I didn't,' sobbed the youth, escaping from my hands, 
and finishing the remainder of the purification with his cambric pocket handkerchief
`I promised mamma that I wouldn't say one word to him, and I didn't.'
`Well, don't cry,' replied Catherine, contemptuously, `you're not killed
Don't make more mischief; my brother is coming: 
be quiet! Give over, Isabella! Has anybody hurt you?'
`There, there, children--to your seats!' cried Hindley, bustling in
`That brute of a lad has warmed me nicely
Next time, Master Edgar, take the law into your own fists--it will give you an appetite!'
The little party recovered its equanimity at sight of the fragrant feast
They were hungry after their ride, and easily consoled, since no real harm had befallen them
Mr Earnshaw carved bountiful platefuls, and the mistress made them merry with lively talk
I waited behind her chair, 
and was pained to behold Catherine, with dry eyes and an indifferent air, commence cutting up the wing of a goose before her
`An unfeeling child,' I thought to myself; 
`how lightly she dismisses her old playmate's troubles
I could not have imagined her to be so selfish.' 
She lifted a mouthful to her lips; then she set it down again: her cheeks flushed, and the tears gushed over them
She slipped her fork to the floor, and hastily dived under the cloth to conceal her emotion
I did not cal her unfeeling long; 
for I perceived she was in purgatory through out the day, and wearying to find an opportunity of getting by herself, 
or paying a visit to Heathcliff, who had been locked up b the master: 
as I discovered, on endeavouring to introduce to him private mess of victuals.
¡¡¡¡In the evening we had a dance
Cathy begged that he might b liberated then, as Isabella Linton had no partner; 
her entreaties were vain, and I was appointed to supply the deficiency
We got rid of all gloom in the excitement of the exercise, 
and our pleasure was increased by the arrival of the Gimmerton band, mustering fifteen strong: 
a trumpet, a trombone, clarionets, bassoon French horns, and a bass viol, besides singers
They go the rounds of all the respectable houses, and receive contributions every Christmas, and we esteemed it a first-rate treat to hear them
After the usual carols had been sung, we set them to songs and glees
Mrs Earnshaw loved the music, and so they gave us plenty.
They shut the house door below, never noting our absence, it was so full people
She made no stay at the stair's head, but mounted farther, to the garret where Heathcliff was confined, and called him
I stubbornly declined answering for a while; 
she persevered, and finally persuaded him to hold communion with her through the boards
I let the poor things converse unmolested, till I supposed the songs were going to cease, and the singers to get some refreshment; 
then, I clambered up the ladder to warn her
Instead of finding her outside, I heard her voice within
The little monkey had crept by the skylight of one garret, along the roof, into the skylight of the other, 
and it was with the utmost difficulty I could coax her out again
When she did come Heathcliff came with her, and she insisted that I should take him into the kitchen, 
as my fellow-servant had gone to a neighbour's to be removed from the sound of our `devil's psalmody', as it pleased him to call it
I told them I intended by no means to encourage their tricks; 
but as the prisoner had never broken his fast since yesterday's dinner, 
I would wink at his cheating Mr Hindley that once
He went down; I set him a stool by the fire, and offered him a quantity of good things; 
but he was sick and could eat little, and my attempts to entertain him were thrown away
He leant his two elbows on his knees, 
and his chin on his hands, and remained wrapt in dumb meditation
On my inquiring the subject of his thoughts, he answered gravely:
`I'm trying to settle how I shall pay Hindley back
I don't care how long I wait, if I can only do it at last
I hope he will not die before I do!'
`For shame, Heathcliff!' said I
`It is for God to punish wicked people; we should learn to forgive.'
`No, God won't have the satisfaction that I shall,' he returned
`I only wish I knew the best way! 
Let me alone, and I'll plan it out: 
while I'm thinking of that I don't feel pain.'
But, Mr Lockwood, I forget these tales cannot divert you
I'm annoyed how I should dream of chattering on at such a rate; 
and your gruel cold, and you nodding for bed! 
I could have told Heathcliffs history, all that you need hear, in half a dozen words.
Thus interrupting herself, the housekeeper rose, arid proceeded to lay aside her sewing; 
but I felt incapable of moving from the hearth, and I was very far from nodding
`Sit still, Mrs Dean,' I cried, `do sit still, another half-hour! 
You've done just right to tell the story leisurely
That is the method I like; 
and you must finish it in the same style
I am interested in every character you have mentioned, more or less.'
`The clock is on the stroke of eleven, sir.'
`No matter--I'm not accustomed to go to bed in the long hours
One or two is early enough for a person who lies till ten.'
`You shouldn't lie till ten
There's the very prime of the morning gone long before that time
A person who has not done one half his day's work by ten o'clock, runs a chance of leaving the other half undone.'
`Nevertheless, Mrs Dean, resume your chair; 
because to morrow I intend lengthening the night till afternoon
I prognosticate for myself an obstinate cold, at least.'
`I hope not, sir
Well, you must allow me to leap over some three years; 
during that space Mrs Earnshaw---'
`No, no, I'll allow nothing of the sort! 
Are you acquainted with the mood of mind in which, 
if you were seated alone, and the cat licking its kitten on the rug before you, 
you would watch the operation so intently that puss's neglect of one ear would put you seriously out of temper?'
`A terribly lazy mood, I should say.'
`On the contrary, a tiresomely active one
It is mine, at present; and, therefore, continue minutely
I perceive that people in these regions acquire over people in towns the value that the spider in a dungeon does over a spider in a cottage, to their various occupants; 
and yet the deepened attraction is not entirely owing to the situation of the looker-on
They do live more in earnest, more in themselves, and less in surface change, and frivolous external things
I could fancy a love for life here almost possible; 
and I was a fixed unbeliever in any love of a year's standing
One state resembles setting a hungry man down to a single dish, on which he may concentrate his entire appetite and do it justice; 
the other, introducing him to a table laid out by French cooks: 
he can perhaps extract as much enjoyment from the whole; 
but each part is a mere atom in his regard and remembrance.'
`Oh! here we are the same as anywhere else, when you get to know us,' observed Mrs Dean, somewhat puzzled at my speech.
`Excuse me,' I responded; 
`you, my good friend, are a striking evidence against that assertion
Excepting a few provincialisms of slight consequence, 
you have no marks of the manners which I am habituated to consider as peculiar to your class
I am sure you have thought a great deal more than the generality of servants think
You have been compelled to cultivate your reflective faculties for want of occasions for frittering your life away in silly trifles.'
Mrs Dean laughed.
`I certainly esteem myself a steady, reasonable kind of body,' she said; 
`not exactly from living among the hills and seeing one set of faces, and one series of actions, 
from year's end to year's end; 
but I have undergone sharp discipline, which has taught me wisdom; 
and then, I have read more than you would fancy, Mr Lockwood
You could not open a book in this library that I have not looked into, and got something out of also: 
unless it be that range of Greek and Latin and that of French; and those I know one from another: 
it is as much as you can expect of a poor man's daughter
However, if I am to follow my story in true gossip's fashion, I had better go on; 
and instead of leaping three years, 
I will be content to pass to the next summer--the summer of 1778, that is, nearly twenty-three years ago.'
On the morning of a fine June day, my first bonny little nursling, 
and the last of the ancient Earnshaw stock, was born
We were busy with the hay in a far away field, 
when the girl that usually brought our breakfasts, came running an hour too soon, across the meadow and up the lane, calling me as she ran.
`Oh, such a grand bairn!' she panted out
`The finest lad that ever breathed! 
But the doctor says missis must go: 
he says she's been in a consumption these many months
I heard him tell Mr Hindley: 
and now she has nothing to keep her, and she'll be dead before winter
You must come home directly
You're to nurse it, Nelly: 
to feed it with sugar and milk, and take care of it day and night
I wish I were you, because it will be all yours when there is no missis!'
`But is she very ill?' I asked, flinging down my rake, and tying my bonnet.
`I guess she is; yet she looks bravely,' replied the girl, `and she talks as if she thought of living to see it grow a man
She's out of her head for joy, it's such a beauty! 
If I were her, I'm certain I should not die: 
I should get better at the bare sight of it, in spite of Kenneth
I was fairly mad at him
Dame Archer brought the cherub down to master, in the house, and his face just began to light up, 
then the old croaker steps forward, 
and says he: ``Earnshaw, it's a blessing your wife has been spared to leave you this son
When she came, I felt convinced we shouldn't keep her long; 
and now, I must tell you, the winter will probably finish her
Don't take on, and fret about it too much! 
it can't be helped
And besides, you should have known better than to choose such a rush of a lass!'
`And what did the master answer?' I inquired.
`I think he swore: 
but I didn't mind him, 
I was straining to see the bairn,' and she began again to describe it rapturously
I, as zealous as herself, hurried eagerly home to admire, on my part; 
though I was very sad for Hindley's sake
He had room in his heart only for two idols--his wife and himself: 
he doted on both, and adored one, and I couldn't conceive how he would bear the loss.
When we got to Wuthering Heights, there he stood at the front door; 
and, as I passed in, I asked, `How was the baby?'
`Nearly ready to run about, Nell!' he replied, putting on a cheerful smile.
`And the mistress?' I ventured to inquire; 
`the doctor says she's--'
`Damn the doctor!' he interrupted, reddening
`Frances is quite right; 
she'll be perfectly well by this time next week
Are you going upstairs? 
will you tell her that I'll come, if she'll promise not to talk
I left her because she would not hold her tongue; 
and she must--tell her Mr Kenneth says she must be quiet.'
I delivered this message to Mrs Earnshaw; 
she seemed in flighty spirits, and replied merrily:
`I hardly spoke a word, Ellen,and there he has gone out twice, crying
Well, say I promise I won't speak: but that does not bind me not to laugh at him!'
Poor soul! 
Till within a week of her death that gay heart never failed her, 
and her husband persisted doggedly, nay, furiously, in affirming her health improved every day
When Kenneth warned him that his medicines were useless at that stage of the malady, 
and he needn't put him to further expense by attending her, he retorted:
`I know you need not--she's well--she does not want any more attendance from you! 
She never was in a consumption
It was a fever; and it is gone: 
her pulse is as slow as mine now, and her cheek as cool.'
He told his wife the same story, and she seemed to believe him; 
but one night, while leaning on his shoulder, 
in the act of saying she thought she should be able to get up tomorrow, a fit of coughing took her--a very slight one--
he raised her in his arms; 
she put her two hands about his neck, her face changed, and she was dead.
As the girl had anticipated, the child Hareton fell wholly into my hands
Mr Earnshaw, provided he saw him healthy and never heard him cry, was contented, as far as regarded him
For himself, he grew desperate: 
his sorrow was of that kind that will not lament
He neither wept nor prayed: 
he cursed and defied: 
execrated God and man, and gave himself up to reckless dissipation
The servants could not bear his tyrannical and evil conduct long: 
Joseph and I were the only two that would stay
I had not the heart to leave my charge; 
and besides, you know I had been his foster-sister, and excused his behaviour more readily than a stranger would
Joseph remained to hector over tenants and labourers; 
and because it was his vocation to be where he had plenty of wickedness to reprove.
The master's bad ways and bad companions formed a pretty example for Catherine and Heathcliff
His treatment of the latter was enough to make a fiend of a saint
And, truly, it appeared as if the lad were possessed of something diabolical at that period
He delighted to witness Hindley degrading himself past redemption; 
and became daily more notable for savage sullenness and ferocity
I could not half tell what an infernal house we had
The curate dropped calling, and nobody decent came near us, at last; 
unless Edgar Linton's visits to Miss Cathy might be an exception
At fifteen she was the queen of the countryside; she had no peer; and she did turn out a haughty, headstrong creature! 
I own I did not like her, after her infancy was past; 
and I vexed her frequently by trying to bring down her arrogance: 
she never took an aversion to me, though
She had a wondrous constancy to old attachments: 
even Heathcliff kept his hold on her affections unalterably; 
and young Linton, with all his superiority, found it difficult to make an equally deep impression
He was my late master: 
that is his portrait over the fireplace
It used to hang on one side, and his wife's on the other; 
but hers has been removed, or else you might see something of what she was
Can you make that out?
Mrs Dean raised the candle, and I discerned a soft-featured face, exceedingly resembling the young lady at the Heights, 
but more pensive and amiable in expression
It formed a sweet picture
The long light hair curled slightly on the temples; 
the eyes were large and serious; the figure almost too graceful
I did not marvel how Catherine Earnshaw could forget her first friend for such an individual
I marvelled much how he, with a mind to correspond with his person, could fancy my idea of Catherine Earnshaw.
`A very agreeable portrait,' I observed to the housekeeper
`Is it like?'
`Yes,' she answered; `but he looked better when he was animated; 
that is his everyday countenance: he wanted spirit in general.'
Catherine had kept up her acquaintance with the Lintons since her five weeks' residence among them; 
and as she had no temptation to show her rough side in their company, 
and had the sense to be ashamed of being rude where she experienced such Invariable courtesy, 
she imposed unwittingly on the old lady and gentleman, by her ingenious cordiality; 
gained the admiration of Isabella, and the heart and soul of her brother: 
acquisitions that flattered her from the first, for she was full of ambition, 
and led her to adopt a double character without exactly intending to deceive anyone
In the place where she heard Heathcliff termed a vulgar young ruffian', 
and `worse than a brute', she took care not to act like him; 
but at home she had small inclination to practise politeness that would only be laughed at, 
and restrain an unruly nature when it would bring her neither credit nor praise
Mr Edgar seldom mustered courage to visit Wuthering Heights openly
He had a terror of Earnshaw's reputation, and shrunk from encountering him; 
and yet he was always received with our best attempts at civility: 
the master himself avoided offending him, knowing why he came; 
and if he could not be gracious, kept out of the way
I rather think his appearance there was distasteful to Catherine: 
she was not artful, never played the coquette, and had evidently an objection to her two friends meeting at all; 
for when Heathcliff expressed contempt of Linton in his presence, 
she could not half coincide, as she did in his absence; 
and when Linton evinced disgust and antipathy to Heathcliff, 
she dared not treat his sentiments with indifference, 
as if depreciation of her playmate were of scarcely any consequence to her
I've had many a laugh at her perplexities and untold troubles, 
which she vainly strove to hide from my mockery
That sounds ill-natured: but she was so proud, 
it became really impossible to pity her distresses, till she should be chastened into more humility
She did bring herself, finally, to confess, and confide in me: 
there was not a soul else that she might fashion into an adviser.
Mr Hindley had gone from home one afternoon, 
and Heathcliff presumed to give himself a holiday on the strength of it
He had reached the age of sixteen then, I think, and without having bad features, 
or being deficient in intellect, 
he contrived to convey an impression of inward and outward repulsiveness that his present aspect retains no traces of
In the first place, he had by that time lost the benefit of his early education: 
continual hard work, begun soon and concluded late, had extinguished any curiosity he once possessed in pursuit of knowledge, 
and any love for books or learning
His childhood's sense of superiority, instilled into him by the favours of old Mr Earnshaw, was faded away
He struggled long to keep up an equality with Catherine in her studies, 
and yielded with poignant though silent regret: but he yielded completely; 
and there was no prevailing on him to take a step in the way of moving upward, 
when he found he must, necessarily, sink beneath his former level
Then personal appearance sympathized with mental deterioration: 
he acquired a slouching gait, and ignoble look; 
his naturally reserved disposition was exaggerated into an almost idiotic excess of unsociable moroseness; 
and he took a grim pleasure, apparently, in exciting the aversion rather than the esteem of his few acquaintance.
Catherine and he were constant companions still at his seasons of respite from labour; but he had ceased to express his fondness for her in words, and recoiled with angry suspicion from her girlish caresses, as if conscious there could be no gratification in lavishing such marks of affection on him
On the before-named occasion he came into the house to announce his intention of doing nothing, 
while I was assisting Miss Cathy to arrange her dress: 
she had not reckoned on his taking it into his head to be idle; 
and imagining she would have the whole place to herself, 
she managed, by some means, to inform Mr Edgar of her brother's absence, and was then preparing to receive him.
`Cathy, are you busy, this afternoon?' asked Heathcliff
`Are you going anywhere?'
`No, it is raining,' she answered.
`Why have you that silk frock on, then?' he said
`Nobody coming here, I hope?'
`Not that I know of,' stammered Miss: 
`but you should be in the field now, Heathcliff
It is an hour past dinner time: I thought you were gone.'
`Hindley does not often free us from his accursed presence,' observed the boy
`I'll not work any more today: 
I'll stay with you.'
`Oh, but Joseph will tell,' she suggested; `you'd better go!'
`Joseph is loading lime on the farther side of Pennistow Crag; 
it will take him till dark, and he'll never know.'
So saying, he lounged to the fire, and sat down
Catherine reflected an instant, with knitted brows--
she found it needful to smooth the way for an intrusion
`Isabella and Edgar Linton talked of calling this afternoon,' she said, at the conclusion of a minute's silence
`As it rains, I hardly expect them;
but they may come, and if they do, you run the risk of being scolded for no good.'
`Order Ellen to say you are engaged, Cathy,' he persisted; 
`don't turn me out for those pitiful, silly friends of yours! 
I'm on the point, sometimes, of complaining that they--but I'll not---'
`That they what?' cried Catherine, gazing at him with a troubled countenance
`Oh, Nelly!' she added petulantly, jerking her head away from my hands, `you've combed my hair quite out of curl! That's enough; let me alone
What are you on the point of complaining about, Heathcliff?'
`Nothing--only look at the almanac on that wall;
' he pointed to a framed sheet hanging near the window, and continued--
`The crosses are for the evenings you have spent with the Lintons, the dots for those spent with me
Do you see? I've marked every day.'
`Yes--very foolish: as if I took notice!' replied Catherine in a peevish tone
`And where is the sense of that?'
`To show that I do take notice,' said Heathcliff.
`And should I always be sitting with you?' she demanded, growing more irritated
`What good do I get? What do you talk about? 
You might be dumb, or a baby, for anything you say to amuse me, or for anything you do, either!'
`You never told me before that I talked too little, or that you disliked my company, Cathy!' exclaimed Heathcliff, in much agitation.
`It's no company at all, when people know nothing and say nothing,' she muttered.
Her companion rose up, but he hadn't time to express his feelings further, for a horse's feet were heard on the flags, 
and having knocked gently, young Linton entered, 
his face brilliant with delight at the unexpected summons he had received
Doubtless Catherine marked the difference between her friends, 
as one came in and the other went out
The contrast resembled what you see in exchanging a bleak, hilly, coal country for a beautiful fertile valley; 
and his voice and greeting were as opposite as his aspect.
He had a sweet, low manner of speaking, and pronounced his words as you do: 
that's less gruff than we talk here, and softer.
`I'm not come too soon, am I?' he said, casting a look at me: 
I had begun to wipe the plate, and tidy some drawers at the far end in the dresser.
`No,' answered Catherine
`What are you doing there, Nelly?'
`My work, miss,' I replied
She stepped behind me and whispered crossly, `Take yourself and your dusters off; 
when company are in the house, servants don't commence scouring and cleaning in the room where they are!'
`It's a good opportunity, now that the master is away,' I answered aloud: 
`he hates me to be fidgeting over these things in his presence
I'm sure Mr Edgar will excuse me.'
`I hate you to be fidgeting in my presence,' exclaimed the young lady imperiously, not allowing her guest time to speak: 
she had failed to recover her equanimity since the little dispute with Heathcliff.
`I'm sorry for it, Miss Catherine,' was my response; 
and I proceeded assiduously with my occupation.
She, supposing Edgar could not see her, snatched the cloth from my hand, 
and pinched me, with a prolonged wrench, very spitefully on the arm
I've said I did not love her, and rather relished mortifying her vanity now and then: 
besides, she hurt me extremely; 
so I started up from my knees, and screamed out, `Oh, miss, that's a nasty trick! You have no right to nip me, and I'm not going to bear it.'
`I didn't touch you, you lying creature!' cried she, her fingers tingling to repeat the act, and her ears red with rage
She never had power to conceal her passion, 
it always set her whole complexion in a blaze.
`What's that, then?' I retorted, showing a decided purple witness to refute her.
She stamped her foot, wavered a moment, 
and then irresistibly impelled by the naughty spirit within her, slapped me on the cheek a stinging blow that filled both eyes with water.
`Catherine, love! Catherine!' interposed Linton, greatly shocked at the double fault of falsehood and violence which his idol had committed.
`Leave the room, Ellen!' she repeated, trembling all over.
Little Hareton, who followed me everywhere, and was sitting near me on the floor, 
at seeing my tears commenced crying himself, 
and sobbed out complaints against `wicked aunt Cathy', 
which drew her fury on to his unlucky head: 
she seized his shoulders, and shook him till the poor child waxed livid, 
and Edgar thoughtlessly laid hold of her hands to deliver him
In an instant one was wrung free, 
and the astonished young man felt it applied over his own ear in a way that could not be mistaken for jest
He drew back in consternation
I lifted Hareton in my arms, and walked off to the kitchen with him, leaving the door of communication open, 
for I was curious to watch how they would settle their disagreement
The insulted visitor moved to the spot where he had laid his hat, pale and with a quivering lip.
`That's right!' I said to myself
`Take warning and begone! 
It's a kindness to let you have a glimpse of her genuine disposition.'
`Where are you going?' demanded Catherine, advancing to the door.
He swerved aside, and attempted to pass.
`You must not go!' she exclaimed energetically.
`I must and shall!' he replied in a subdued voice.
`No,' she persisted, grasping the handle; `not yet, Edgar Linton: sit down; 
you shall not leave me in that temper
I should be miserable all night, and I won't be miserable for you!'
`Can I stay after you have struck me?' asked Linton
Catherine was mute.
`You've made me afraid and ashamed of you,' he continued; `I'll not come here again!'
Her eyes began to glisten, and her lids to twinkle
`And you told a deliberate untruth!' he said.
`I didn't!' she cried, recovering her speech;
 `I did nothing deliberately
Well, go, if you please--get away! 
And now I'll cry--I'll cry myself sick!'
She dropped down on her knees by a chair, and set to weeping in serious earnest
Edgar persevered in his resolution as far as the court; there he lingered
I resolved to encourage him.
`Miss is dreadfully wayward, sir,' I called out
`As bad as any marred child: 
you'd better be riding home, or else she will be sick only to grieve us.'
The soft thing looked askance through the window: 
he possessed the power to depart, as much as a cat possesses the power to leave a mouse half killed, or a bird half eaten
Ah, I thought, there will be no saving him: he's doomed, and flies to his fate! 
And so it was: he turned abruptly, hastened into the house again, shut the door behind him; 
and when I went in a while after to inform them that Earnshaw had come home rabid drunk, ready to pull the whole place about our ears , 
I saw the quarrel had merely effected a closer intimacy had broken the outworks of youthful timidity, 
and enabled them to forsake the disguise of friendship, and confess themselves lovers.
Intelligence of Mr Hindley's arrival drove Linton speedily to his horse, 
and Catherine to her chamber
I went to hide little Hareton, 
and to take the shot out of the master's fowling-piece, 
which he was fond of playing with in his insane excitement, to the hazard of the lives of any who provoked, 
or even attracted his notice too much; 
and I had hit upon the plan of removing it, 
that he might do less mischief if he did go the length of firing the gun.
He entered, vociferating oaths dreadful to hear; 
and caught me in the act of stowing his son away in the kitchen cupboard
Hareton was impressed with a wholesome terror of encountering either his wild beast's fondness or his madman's rage; 
for in one he ran a chance of being squeezed and kissed to death, 
and in the other of being flung into the fire, or dashed against the wall; 
and the poor thing remained perfectly quiet wherever I chose to put him.
`There, I've found it out at last!' cried Hindley, pulling me back by the skin of my neck, 
like a dog
`By heaven and hell, you've sworn between you to murder that child! 
I know how it is, now, that he is always out of my way
But, with the help of Satan, I shall make you swallow the carving-knife, Nelly! You needn't laugh; 
for I've just crammed Kenneth, head downmost, in the Blackhorse marsh; 
and two is the same as one--and I want to kill some of you: 
I shall have no rest till I do!'
`But I don't like the carving-knife, Mr Hindley,' I answered: `it has been cutting red herrings
I'd rather be shot, if you please.'
`You'd rather be damned!' he said; 
`and so you shall
No law in England can hinder a man from keeping his house decent, 
and mine's abominable! open your mouth.'
He held the knife in his hand, 
and pushed its point between my teeth: 
but, for my part, I was never much afraid of his vagaries
I spat out, and affirmed it tasted detestably--
I would not take it on any account.
`Oh!' said he, releasing me, 
`I see that hideous little villain is not Hareton: 
I beg your pardon, Nell
If it be, he deserves flaying alive for not running to welcome me, 
and for screaming as if I were a goblin
Unnatural cub, come hither! 
I'll teach thee to impose on a good-hearted, deluded father
Now, don't you think the lad would be handsomer cropped? 
It makes a dog fiercer, and I love something fierce--get me a scissors--something fierce and trim! 
Besides, it's infernal affectation--devilish conceit it is, to cherish our ears--we're asses enough without them
Hush, child, hush! 
Well then, it is my darling! 
wisht, dry thy eyes--there's a joy; 
kiss me
What! it won't? 
Kiss me, Hareton! Damn thee, kiss me! 
By God, as if 1 would rear such a monster! 
As sure as I'm living, I'll break the brat's neck.'
Poor Hareton was squalling and kicking in his father's arms with all his might, 
and redoubled his yells when he carried him upstairs and lifted him over the banister
I cried out that he would frighten the child into fits, 
and ran to rescue him
As I reached them, Hindley leant forward on the rails to listen to a noise below; 
almost forgetting what he had in his hands
`Who is that?' he asked, 
hearing someone approaching the stair's foot
I leant forward also, for the purpose of signing to Heathcliff, 
whose step I recognized, not to come farther; 
and, at the instant when my eye quitted Hareton, 
he gave a sudden spring, delivered himself from the careless grasp that held him, and fell.
There was scarcely time to experience a thrill of horror before we saw that the little wretch was safe
Heathcliff arrived underneath just at the critical moment; 
by a natural impulse, 
he arrested his descent, 
and setting him on his feet, looked up to discover the author of the accident
A miser who has parted with a lucky lottery ticket for five shillings, 
and finds next day he has lost in the bargain five thousand pounds, 
could not show a blanker countenance than he did on beholding the figure of Mr Earnshaw above
It expressed, plainer than words could do, 
the intense anguish at having made himself the instrument of thwarting his own revenge
Had it been dark, 
I dare say, 
he would have tried to remedy the mistake by smashing Hareton's skull on the steps; 
but we witnessed his salvation; 
and I was presently below with my precious charge pressed to my heart
Hindley descended more leisurely, sobered and abashed.
`It is your fault, Ellen,' he said; 
`you should have kept him out of sight: 
you should have taken him from me! 
Is he injured anywhere?'
`Injured!' I cried angrily; 
`if he's not killed, he'll be an idiot! 
Oh! I wonder his mother does not rise from her grave to see how you use him
You're worse than a heathen--treating your own flesh and blood in that manner!'
He attempted to touch the child, who, on finding himself with me, sobbed off his terror directly
At the first finger his father laid on him, 
however, he shrieked again louder than before, and struggled as if he would go into convulsions.
`You shall not meddle with him!' I continued
`He hates you--they all hate you--that's the truth! 
A happy family you have: and a pretty state you're come to!'
`I shall come to a prettier, yet, Nelly,' laughed the misguided man, recovering his hardness
`At present, convey yourself and him away
And, hark you, Heathcliff! 
clear you too, quite from my reach and hearing
I wouldn't murder you tonight; 
unless, perhaps, I set the house on fire: 
but that's as my fancy goes.
While saying this he took a pint bottle of brandy from the dresser, 
and poured some into a tumbler.
`Nay, don't!' I entreated
`Mr Hindley, do take warning
Have mercy on this unfortunate boy, 
if you care nothing for yourself!'
`Anyone will do better for him than I shall,' he answered.
`Have mercy on your own soul!' I said, endeavouring to snatch the glass from his hand.
`Not I! On the contrary, I shall have great pleasure in sending it to perdition to punish its Maker,' exclaimed the blasphemer
`Here's to its hearty damnation!'
He drank the spirits and impatiently bade us go; 
terminating his command with a sequel of horrid imprecations, too bad to repeat or remember.
It's a pity he cannot kill himself with drink,' observed Heathcliff, 
muttering an echo of curses back when the door was shut
`He's doing his very utmost; 
but his constitution defies him
Mr Kenneth says he would wager his mare, 
that he'll outlive any man on this side Gimmerton, 
and go to the grave a hoary sinner; 
unless some happy chance out of the common course befall him.'
I went into the kitchen, and sat down to lull my little lamb to sleep
Heathcliff, as I thought, walked through to the barn
It turned out afterwards that he only got as far as the other side the settle, 
when he flung himself on a bench by the wall, 
removed from the fire, and remained silent.
I was rocking Hareton on my knee, and humming a song that began:
It was far in the night, and the bairnies grat,
The mither beneath the mools heard that--
when Miss Cathy, who had listened to the hubbub from her room, put her head in, and whispered:
`Are you alone, Nelly?'
`Yes, miss,' I replied.
She entered and approached the hearth
I, supposing she was going to say something, looked up
The expression of her face seemed disturbed and anxious
Her lips were half asunder, as if she meant to speak, and she drew a breath; 
but it escaped in a sigh instead of a sentence
I resumed my song; 
not having forgotten her recent behaviour.
`Where's Heathcliff?' she said, interrupting me.`About his work in the stable,' was my answer.
He did not contradict me; 
perhaps he had fallen into a doze
There followed another long pause, 
during which I perceived a drop or two trickle from Catherine's cheek to the flags
Is she sorry for her shameful conduct? 
I asked myself
That will be a novelty: 
but she may come to the point as she will--I shan't help her! 
No, she felt small trouble regarding any subject, save her own concerns.
`Oh, dear!' she cried at last
`I'm very unhappy!'
`A pity,' observed I
`You're hard to please: 
so many friends and so few cares, and can't make yourself content!'
`Nelly, will you keep a secret for me?' she pursued, kneeling down by me, a
nd lifting her winsome eyes to my face with that sort of look which turns off bad temper,
even when one has all the right in the world to indulge it.
`Is it worth keeping?' I inquired, less sulkily.
`Yes, and it worries me, and I must let it out! 
I want to know what I should do
Today, Edgar Linton has asked me to marry him, 
and I've given him an answer
Now, before I tell you whether it was a consent or denial, 
you tell me which it ought to have been.'
`Really, Miss Catherine, how can I know?' I replied
`To be sure, considering the exhibition you performed in his presence this afternoon, 
I might say it would be wise to refuse him: 
since he asked you after that, 
he must either be hopelessly stupid or a venturesome fool.'
`If you talk so, I won't tell you any more,' 
she returned peevishly, rising to her feet
`I accepted him, Nelly
Be quick, and say whether I was wrong!'
`You accepted him! then what good is it discussing the matter? 
You have pledged your word, and cannot retract.'
`But, say whether I should have done so--do!' she exclaimed in an irritated tone; 
chafing her hands together, and frowning.
`There are many things to be considered before that question can be answered properly,' I said sententiously
`First and fore-most, do you love Mr Edgar?'
`Who can help it? 
Of course I do,' she answered.
Then I put her through the following catechism: 
for a girl of twenty-two it was not injudicious.
`Why do you love him, Miss Cathy?'
`Nonsense, I do--that's sufficient.'
`By no means; 
you must say why?'
`Well, because he is handsome, and pleasant to be with.'
`Bad!' was my commentary.
`And because he is young and cheerful.'
`And because he loves me.'
`Indifferent, coming there.'
`And he will be rich, 
and I shall like to be the greatest woman of the neighbourhood, 
and I shall be proud of having such a husband.'
`Worst of all
And now, say how you love him?'`As everybody loves--You're silly, Nelly.'`Not at all--Answer.'
`I love the ground under his feet, 
and the air over his head, 
and everything he touches, 
and every word he says
I love all his looks, 
and all his actions, 
and him entirely and altogether
`And why?'`Nay; 
you are making a jest of it; 
it is exceedingly ill-natured! 
It's no jest to me!' said the young lady, scowling, and turning her face to the fire.
`I'm very far from jesting, Miss Catherine,' I replied
`You love Mr Edgar because he is handsome, and young, and cheerful, and rich, and loves you
The last, however, goes for nothing: 
you would love him without that, probably; 
and with it you wouldn't, unless he possessed the four former attractions.'
`No, to be sure not: 
I should only pity him--hate him, perhaps, if he were ugly, and a clown.'
`But there are several other handsome, rich young men in the world: 
handsomer, possibly, and richer than he is
What should hinder you from loving them?'
`If there be any, they are out of my way! 
I've seen none like Edgar.'
`You may see some; 
and he won't always be handsome, and young, and may not always be rich.'
`He is now; 
and I have only to do with the present
I wish you would speak rationally.'
`Well, that settles it: 
if you have only to do with the present, marry Mr Linton.'
`I don't want your permission for that--I shall marry him: 
and yet you have not told me whether I'm right.'
`Perfectly right; 
if people be right to marry only for the present
And now, let us hear what you are unhappy about
Your brother will be pleased; 
the old lady and gentleman will not object, I think; 
you will escape from a disorderly, comfortless home into a wealthy, respectable one; 
and you love Edgar, and Edgar loves you
All seems smooth and easy: 
where is the obstacle?'
`Here! and here!' replied Catherine, striking one hand on her forehead, and the other on her breast: 
`in whichever place the soul lives
In my soul and in my heart, I'm convinced I'm wrong!'
`That's very strange! 
I cannot make it out.'
`It's my secret
But if you will not mock at me, I'll explain it: 
I can't do it distinctly: 
but I'll give you a feeling of how I feel.'
She seated herself by me again: 
her countenance grew sadder and graver, and her clasped hands trembled.
`Nelly, do you never dream queer dreams?' she said, 
suddenly, after some minutes' reflection.`Yes, now and then,' I answered.
`And so do I
I've dreamt in my life dreams that have stayed with me ever after, and changed my ideas: 
they've gone through and through me, like wine through water, and altered the colour of my mind
And this is one; 
I'm going to tell it--but take care not to smile at any part of it.'
`Oh! don't, Miss Catherine!' I cried
`We're dismal enough without conjuring up ghosts and visions to perplex us
Come, come, be merry and like yourself! 
Look at little Hareton! 
he's dreaming nothing dreary
How sweetly he smiles in his sleep!'
`Yes; and how sweetly his father curses in his solitude! 
You remember him, I dare say, when he was just such another as that chubby thing: 
nearly as young and innocent
However, Nelly, I shall oblige you to listen: it's not long; 
and I've no power to be merry tonight.'
`I won't hear it, I won't hear it!' I repeated hastily.
I was superstitious about dreams then, and am still; 
and Catherine had an unusual gloom in her aspect, 
that made me dread something from which I might shape a prophecy, and foresee a fearful catastrophe
She was vexed, but she did not proceed
Apparently taking up another subject, 
she recommenced in a short time.
`If I were in heaven, Nelly, I should be extremely miserable.
'`Because you are not fit to go there,', I answered
`All sinners would be miserable in heaven.'
`But it is not for that
I dreamt once that I was there.'
`I tell you I won't hearken to your dreams, Miss Catherine! I'll go to bed,' I interrupted again.
She laughed, and held me down; 
for I made a motion to leave my chair.
`This is nothing,' cried she: `I was only going to say that heaven did not seem to be my home; 
and I broke my heart with weeping to come back to earth; 
and the angels were so angry that they flung me out into the middle of the heath on the top of Wuthering Heights; 
where I woke sobbing for joy
That will do to explain my secret, as well as the other
I've no more business to marry Edgar Linton than I have to be in heaven; 
and if the wicked man in there had not brought Heathcliff so low, I shouldn't have thought of it
It would degrade me to marry Heathcliff now; so he shall never know how I love him: and that, 
not because he's handsome, Nelly, 
but because he's more myself than I am
Whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same; 
and Linton's is as different as a moonbeam from lightning, or frost from fire.'
Ere this speech ended, 
I became sensible of Heathcliff's presence
Having noticed a slight movement, 
I turned my head, and saw him rise from the bench, and steal out noiselessly
He had listened till he heard Catherine say it would degrade her to marry him, 
and then he stayed to hear no further
My companion, sitting on the ground, was prevented by the back of the settle from remarking his presence or departure; 
but I started, and bade her hush!
`Why?' she asked, gazing nervously round.
`Joseph is here,' I answered, catching opportunely the roll of his cart-wheels up the road; `
and Heathcliff will come in with him
I'm not sure whether he were not at the door this moment.'
`Oh, he couldn't overhear me at the door!' said she
`Give me Hareton, while you get the supper, a
nd when it is ready ask me to sup with you
I want to cheat my uncomfortable conscience, 
and be convinced that Heathcliff has no notion of these things
He has not, has he? 
He does not know what being in love is?'
`I see no reason that he should not know, as well as you,' I returned; 
`and if you are his choice, he will be the most unfortunate creature that ever was born! 
As soon as you become Mrs Linton, he loses friend, and love, and all! 
Have you considered how you'll bear the separation, and how he'll be deserted in the world? 
Because, Miss Catherine---'
`He quite deserted! we separated!' she exclaimed, with an accent of indignation
`Who is to separate us, pray? 
They'll meet the fate of Milo! Not as long as I live, Ellen: for no mortal creature
Every Linton on the face of the earth might melt into nothing, 
before I could consent to forsake Heathcliff
Oh, that's not what I intend--that's not what I mean! 
I shouldn't be Mrs Linton were such a price demanded! 
He'll be as much to me as he has been all his lifetime
Edgar must shake off his antipathy, and tolerate him, at least
He will, when he learns my true feelings towards him
Nelly, I see now, you think me a selfish wretch; 
but did it never strike you that if Heathcliff and I married, 
we should be beggars? whereas, 
if I marry Linton, I can aid Heathcliff to rise, and place him out of my brother's power.'
`With your husband's money, Miss Catherine?' I asked
`You'll find him not so pliable as you calculate upon: 
and, though I'm hardly a judge, 
I think that's the worst motive you've given yet for being the wife of young Linton.'
`It is not,' retorted she;
`it is the best! 
The others were the satisfaction of my whims: 
and for Edgar's sake, too, to satisfy him
This is for the sake of one who comprehends in his person my feelings to Edgar and myself
I cannot express it; 
but surely you and everybody have a notion that there is or should be an existence of yours beyond you
What were the use of my creation, if I were entirely contained here? 
My great miseries in this world have been Heathcliff's miseries, and I watched and felt each from the beginning: my great thought in living is himself
If all else perished, and he remained, I should still continue to be; 
and if all else remained, and he were annihilated, 
the universe would turn to a mighty stranger: 
I should not seem a part of it
My love for Linton is like the foliage in the woods: 
time will change it, I'm well aware, as winter changes the trees
My love for Heathcliff resembles the eternal rocks beneath: 
a source of little visible delight, but necessary
Nelly, I am Heathcliff! 
He's always, always in my mind: 
not as a pleasure, any more than I am always a pleasure to myself, 
but as my own being
So don't talk of our separation again: 
it is impracticable; and---'
She paused, and hid her face in the folds of my gown; 
but I jerked it forcibly away
I was out of patience with her folly!
`If I can make any sense of your nonsense, miss,' I said, 
`it only goes to convince me that you are ignorant of the duties you undertake in marrying; 
or else that you are a wicked, unprincipled girl
But trouble me with no more secrets: 
I'll not promise to keep them.'
`You'll keep that?' she asked eagerly.
`No, I'll not promise,' I repeated.
She was about to insist, when the entrance of Joseph finished our conversation; 
and Catherine removed her seat to a corner, and nursed Hareton, while I made the supper
After it was cooked, 
my fellow-servant and I began to quarrel who should carry some to Mr Hindley; 
and we didn't settle it till all was nearly cold
Then we came to the agreement that we would let him ask, if he wanted any; 
for we feared particularly to go into his presence when he had been some time alone.
`Und hah isn't that nowt comed in frough th' field, be this time? 
What is he abaht? girt eedle seeght!' demanded the old man, looking round for Heathcliff.
`I'll call him,' I replied
`He's in the barn, I've no doubt.'
I went and called, but got no answer
On returning, I whispered to Catherine that he had heard a good part of what she said, 
I was sure; 
and told how I saw him quit the kitchen just as she complained of her brother's conduct regarding him
She jumped up in a fine fright, flung Hareton on to the settle, 
and ran to seek for her friend herself; 
not taking leisure to consider why she was so flurried, 
or how her talk would have affected him
She was absent such a while that Joseph proposed we should wait no longer
He cunningly conjectured they were staying away in order to avoid hearing his protracted blessing
They were `ill eneugh for ony fahl manners', he affirmed
And on their behalf he added that night a special prayer to the usual quarter of an hour's supplication before meat, 
and would have tacked another to the end of the grace, 
had not his young mistress broken in upon him with a hurried command that he must run down the road, 
and wherever Heathcliff had rambled, find and make him re-enter directly!
`I want to speak to him, and I must, before I go upstairs,' she said
`And the gate is open: he is somewhere out of hearing; 
for he would not reply, though I shouted at the top of the fold as loud as I could.'
Joseph objected at first; 
she was too much in earnest, however, to suffer contradiction; 
and at last he placed his hat on his head, and walked grumbling forth
Meantime, Catherine paced up and down the floor, exclaiming:
`I wonder where he is--I wonder where he can be? What did I say, Nelly? I've forgotten
Was he vexed at my bad humour this afternoon? 
Dear! tell me what I've said to grieve him? 
I do wish he'd come
I do wish he would!'
`What a noise for nothing!' I cried, though rather uneasy myself
`What a trifle scares you! 
It's surely no great cause of alarm that Heathcliff should take a moonlight saunter on the moors, 
or even lie too sulky to speak to us in the hay-loft
I'll engage he's lurking there
See if I don't ferret him out!'I departed to renew my search; 
its result was disappointment, and Joseph's quest ended in the same.
`Yon lads gets war un war!' observed he on re-entering
`He's left th' yate ut t' full swing, 
and Miss's pony has trodden dahn two rigs uh corn, un plottered through, raight o'er intuh t' meadow! 
Hahsomdiver, t' maister 'ull play t' devil tomorn, and he'll do weel
He's patience itsseln wi' sich careless, offald craters--patience itsseln he is! 
Bud he'll nut be soa allus--yah's see, all on ye! 
Yah mum'nt drive him aht uf his heead for nowt!'
`Have you found Heathcliff, you ass?' interrupted Catherine
`Have you been looking for him, as I ordered?'
`Aw sud more likker look for th' horse,' he replied
`It 'ud be tuh more sense
Bud, Aw can look for norther horse nur man uf a neeght loike this--as black as t' chimbley! 
und Hathecliff's noan t' chap to coom at maw whistle--happen he'll be less hard uh hearing wi' ye!'
It was a very dark evening for summer: 
the clouds appeared inclined to thunder, and I said we had better all sit down; 
the approaching rain would be certain to bring him home without further trouble
However, Catherine would not be persuaded into tranquillity
She kept wandering to and fro, from the gate to the door, in a state of agitation which permitted no repose; 
and at length took up a permanent situation on one side of the wall, near the road:
where, heedless of my expostulations and the growling thunder, 
and the great drops that began to plash around her, 
she remained, calling at intervals, and then listening, and then crying outright
She beat Hareton, 
or any child, at a good passionate fit of crying.
About midnight, 
while we still sat up, the storm came rattling over the Heights in full fury
There was a violent wind, as well as thunder, 
and either one or the other split a tree off at the corner of the building: 
a huge bough fell across the roof, 
and knocked down a portion of the east chimney-stack, 
sending a clatter of stones and soot into the kitchen fire
We thought a bolt had fallen in the middle of us; 
and Joseph swung on to his knees beseeching the Lord to remember the patriarchs Noah and Lot, 
and, as in former times, spare the righteous, though He smote the ungodly
I felt some sentiment that it must be a judgment on us also
The Jonah, in my mind, was Mr Earnshaw; 
and I shook the handle of his den that I might ascertain if he were yet living
He replied audibly enough, in a fashion which made my companion vociferate, more clamorously than before, 
that a wide distinction might be drawn between saints like himself and sinners like his master
But the uproar passed away in twenty minutes, leaving us all unharmed; 
excepting Cathy, who got thoroughly drenched for her obstinacy in refusing to take shelter, 
and standing bonnetless and shawl-less to catch as much water as she could with her hair and clothes
She came in and lay down on the settle, all soaked as she was, turning her face to the back, and putting her hands before it.
`Well, miss!' I exclaimed, touching her shoulder; 
`you are not bent on getting your death, are you? 
Do you know what o'clock it is? Half past twelve
Come, come to bed! 
there's no use waiting longer on that foolish boy: 
he'll be gone to Gimmetton, and he'll stay there now
He guesses we shouldn't wait for him till this late hour: 
at least, he guesses that only Mr Hindley would be up; 
and he'd rather avoid having the door opened by the master.
`Nay, nay, he's noan at Gimmerton,' said Joseph
`Aw's niver wonder, bud he's at t' bothom uf a bog-hoile
This visitation worn't for nowt, 
and I wod hev ye to look out, miss--yah muh be t' next
Thank Hiven for all! 
All warks togither for gooid to them as is chozzen, 
and piked out fro' th' rubbidge! 
Yah knaw whet t' Scripture ses.' 
And he began quoting several texts, referring us to the chapters and verses where we might find them.
I, having vainly begged the wilful girl to rise and remove her wet things, left him preaching and her shivering, 
and betook myself to bed with little Hareton, 
who slept as fast as if everyone had been sleeping round him
I heard Joseph read on a while afterwards; 
then I distinguished his slow step on the ladder, and then I dropped asleep.
Coming down somewhat later than usual, I saw, 
by the sunbeams piercing the chinks of the shutters, Miss Catherine still seated near the fireplace
The house door was ajar, too; 
light entered from its unclosed windows; 
Hindley had come out, and stood on the kitchen hearth, haggard and drowsy.
`What ails you, Cathy?' he was saying when I entered: 
`you look as dismal as a drowned whelp
Why are you so damp and pale, child?'
`I've been wet,' she answered reluctantly' `and I'm cold, that's all.
'`Oh, she is naughty!' I cried, perceiving the master to be tolerably sober
`She got steeped in the shower of yesterday evening, 
and there she has sat the night through, 
and I couldn't prevail on her to stir.'
Mr Earnshaw stared at us in surprise
`The night through,' he repeated
`What kept her up? not fear of the thunder, surely? 
That was over hours since.'
Neither of us wished to mention Heathcliff's absence, as long as we could conceal it; 
so I replied, I didn't know how she took it into her head to sit up; 
and she said nothing
The morning was fresh and cool; 
I threw back the lattice, and presently the room filled with sweet scents from the garden; 
but Catherine called peevishly to me, `Ellen, shut the window
I'm starving!' And her teeth chattered as she shrunk closer to the almost extinguished embers.
`She's ill,' said Hindley, taking her wrist; 
`I suppose that's the reason she would not go to bed
Damn it! 
I don't want to be troubled with more sickness here
What took you into the rain!'
`Running after t' lads, as usuald!' croaked Joseph, catching an opportunity, from our hesitation, to thrust in his evil tongue
`If I war yah, maister, I'd just slam t' boards i' their faces all on 'em, gentle and simple! 
Never a day ut yah're off, but yon cat o' Linton comes sneaking hither; 
and Miss Nelly, shoo's a fine lass!
shoo sits watching for ye i' t' kitchen; 
and as yah're in at one door, he's out at t'other; 
and, then, wer grand lady goes a coorting of her side! 
It's bonny behaviour, lurking amang t' fields, after twelve o' t' night, wi' that fahl, flaysome divil of a gipsy, Heathcliff! 
They think I'm blind; 
but I'm noan: 
nowt ut t' soart!--
I seed young Linton boath coming and going, and I seed yah' , `yah gooid fur nowt, 
slattenly witch! nip up and bolt into th' house, t' minute yah heard t' maister's horse fit clatter up t' road.'
`Silence, eavesdropper!' cried Catherine; 
`none of your insolence before me! 
Edgar Linton came yesterday by chance, Hindley; 
and it was I who told him to be off: 
because I knew you would not like to have met him as you were.
`You lie, Cathy, no doubt,' answered her brother, `and you are a confounded simpleton! 
But never mind Linton at present: 
tell me, were you not with Heathcliff last night? 
Speak the truth, now
You need not be afraid of harming him: 
though I hate him as much as ever, 
he did me a good turn a short time since, 
that will make my conscience tender of breaking his neck
To prevent it, I shall send him about his business, this very morning; 
and after he's gone, I'd advise you all to look sharp: 
I shall only have the more humour for you.
`I never saw Heathcliff last night,' answered Catherine, beginning to sob bitterly: 
`and if you do turn him out of doors, I'll go with him
But, perhaps, you'll never have an opportunity: perhaps he's gone.' 
Here she burst into uncontrollable grief, and the remainder of her words were inarticulate.
Hindley lavished on her a torrent of scornful abuse, and bade her get to her room immediately, 
or she shouldn't cry for nothing! I obliged her to obey; 
and I shall never forget what a scene she acted when we reached her chamber: 
it terrified me
I thought she was going mad, 
and I begged Joseph to run for the doctor
It proved the commencement of delirium: 
Mr Kenneth, as soon as he saw her, pronounced her dangerously ill; 
she had a fever
He bled her, and he told me to let her live on whey and water gruel, 
and take care she did not throw herself downstairs or out of the window; 
and then he left: for he had enough to do in the parish, 
where two or three miles was the ordinary distance between cottage and cottage.
Though I cannot say I made a gentle nurse, and Joseph and the master were no better; 
and though our patient was as wearisome and headstrong as a patient could be, 
she weathered it through
Old Mrs Linton paid us several visits, 
to be sure, and set things to rights, 
and scolded and ordered us all; 
and when Catherine was convalescent, 
she insisted on conveying her to Thrushcross Grange: 
for which deliverance we were very grateful
But the poor dame had reason to repent of her kindness: 
she and her husband both took the fever, and died within a few days of each other.
Our young lady returned to us, saucier and more passionate, and haughtier than ever
Heathcliff had never been heard of since the evening of the thunder-storm; 
and one day I had the misfortune, 
when she had provoked me exceedingly, to lay the blame of his disappearance on her: 
where indeed it belonged, as she well knew
From that period, for several months, 
she ceased to hold any communication with me, save in the relation of a mere servant
Joseph fell under a ban also: 
he would speak his mind, and lecture her all the same as if she were a little girl; 
and she esteemed herself a woman, and our mistress, 
and thought that her recent illness gave her a claim to be treated with consideration
Then the doctor had said that she would not bear crossing much; 
she ought to have her own way;
and it was nothing less than murder in her eyes for anyone to presume to stand up and contradict her
From Mr Earnshaw and his companions she kept aloof; 
and tutored by Kenneth, 
and serious threats of a fit that often attended her rages, 
her brother allowed her whatever she pleased to demand, and generally avoided aggravating her fiery temper
He was rather too indulgent in humouring her caprices; 
not from affection, but from pride: 
he wished earnestly to see her bring honour to the family by an alliance with the Lintons, 
and as long as she let him alone she might trample us like slaves, 
for aught he cared! 
Edgar Linton, as multitudes have been before and will be after him, was infatuated; 
and believed himself th,e happiest man alive on the day he led her to Gimmerton Chapel, three years subsequent to his father's death.
Much against my inclination, 
I was persuaded to leave Wuthering Heights and accompany her here
Little Hareton was nearly five years old, 
and I had just begun to teach him his letters
We made a sad parting; 
but Catherine's tears were more powerful than ours
When I refused to go, and when she found her entreaties did not move me, 
she went lamenting to her husband and brother
The former offered me munificent wages; 
the latter ordered me to pack up: 
he wanted no women in the house, he said, now that there was no mistress; 
and as to Hareton, the curate should take him in hand, by and by
And so I had but one choice left: 
to do as I was ordered
I told the master he got rid of all decent people only to run to ruin a little faster; 
I kissed Hareton goodbye; 
and since then he has been a stranger: 
and it's very queer to think it, 
but I've no doubt he has completely forgotten all about Ellen Dean, 
and that he was ever more than all the world to her, and she to him!
At this point of the housekeeper's story, 
she chanced to glance towards the timepiece over the chimney; 
and was in amazement on seeing the minute hand measure half past one
She would not hear of staying a second longer: 
in truth, I felt rather disposed to defer the sequel of her narrative, myself
And now that she is vanished to her rest, 
and I have meditated for another hour or two, 
I shall summon courage to go, also, in spite of aching laziness of head and limbs.
A charming introduction to a hermit's life! 
Four weeks' torture, tossing, and sickness! 
Oh! these bleak winds and bitter northern skies, 
and impassable roads, and dilatory country surgeons! 
And, oh, this dearth of the human physiognomy! 
and, worse than all, the terrible intimation of Kenneth that I need not expect to be out of doors till spring!
Mr Heathcliff has just honoured me with a calls About seven days ago he sent me a brace of grouse--the last of the season
Scoundrel! He is not altogether guiltless in this illness of mine; 
and that I had a great mind to tell him
But, alas!
how could I offend a man who was charitable enough to sit at my bedside a good hour, 
and talk on some other subject than pills and draughts, blisters and leeches? 
This is quite an easy interval
I am too weak to read; yet I feel as if I could enjoy something interesting
Why not have up Mrs Dean to finish her tale? 
I can recollect its chief incidents as far as she had gone
Yes: I remember her hero had run off, and never been heard of for three years; 
and the heroine was married
I'll ring: she'll be delighted to find me capable of talking cheerfully
Mrs Dean came.
`It wants twenty minutes, sir, to taking the medicine,' she commenced.
`Away, away with it!' I replied; 
`I desire to have---'
`The doctor says you must drop the powders.'
`With all my heart! 
Don't interrupt me
Come and take your seat here
Keep your fingers from that bitter phalanx of vials
Draw your knitting out of your pocket--that will do--
now continue the history of Mr Heathcliff, 
from where you left off, to the present day
Did he finish his education on the Continent, and come back a gentleman? or
did he get a sizar's place at college, or escape to America, 
and earn honours by drawing blood from his foster-country? 
or make a fortune more promptly on the English highways?'
`He may have done a little in all these vocations, Mr Lockwood; 
but I couldn't give my word for any
I stated before that I didn't know how he gained his money; 
neither am I aware of the means he took to raise his mind from the savage ignorance into which it was sunk: 
but, with your leave, I'll proceed in my own fashion, if you think it will amuse and not weary you
Are you feeling better this morning?'
`That's good news
I got Miss Catherine and myself to Thrushcross Grange; 
and, to my agreeable disappointment, 
she behaved infinitely better than I dared expect
She seemed almost over fond of Mr Linton; 
and even to his sister she showed plenty of affection
They were both very attentive to her comfort, certainly
It was not the thorn bending to the honeysuckles, but the honeysuckles embracing the thorn
There were no mutual concessions; 
one stood erect, and the others yielded: 
and who can be ill-natured and bad-tempered when they encounter neither opposition nor indifference? 
I observed that Mr Edgar had a deeprooted fear of ruffling her humour
He concealed it from her; 
but if ever he heard me answer sharply, 
or saw any other servant grow cloudy at some imperious order of hers, 
he would show his trouble by a frown of displeasure that never darkened on his own account
He many a time spoke sternly to me about my pertness; 
and averred that the stab of a knife could not inflict a worse pang than he suffered at seeing his lady vexed
Not to grieve a kind master, I learned to be less touchy; 
and, for the space of half a year, the gunpowder lay as harmless as sand, because no fire came near to explode it
Catherine had seasons of gloom and silence now and then: 
they were respected with sympathizing silence by her husband, 
who ascribed them to an alteration in her constitution, produced by her perilous illness; 
as she was never subject to depression of spirits before
The return of sunshine was welcomed by answering sunshine from him
I believe I may assert that they were really in possession of deep and growing happiness.
Well, we must be for ourselves in the long run; 
the mild and generous are only more justly selfish than the domineering; 
and it ended when circumstances caused each to feel that the ones interest was not the chief consideration in the other's thoughts
On a mellow evening in September, 
I was coming from the garden with a heavy basket of apples which I had been gathering
It had got dusk, and the moon looked over the high wall of the court, 
causing undefined shadows to lurk in the corners of the numerous projecting portions of the building
I set my burden on the house steps by the kitchen door, and lingered to rest, 
and drew in a few more breaths of the soft, sweet air; 
my eyes were on the moon, and my back to the entrance, 
when I heard a voice behind me say--
`Nelly, is that you?'
It was a deep voice, and foreign in tone; 
yet there was something in the manner of pronouncing my name which made it sound familiar
I turned about to discover who spoke, fearfully; 
for the doors were shut, 
and I had seen nobody on approaching the steps
Something stirred in the porch; 
and, moving nearer, I distinguished a tall man dressed in dark clothes, with dark face and hair
He leant against the side, 
and held his fingers on the latch as if intending to open for himself
`Who can it be?' I thought
`Mr Earnshaw? Oh, no! The voice has no resemblance to his.'
`I have waited here an hour,' he resumed, while I continued staring; 
`and the whole of that time all round has been as still as death
I dared not enter
You do not know me? Look, I'm not a stranger!'
A ray fell on his features; 
the cheeks were sallow, and half covered with black whiskers; 
the brows lowering, the eyes deep set and singular
I remembered the eyes.
`What!' I cried, uncertain whether to regard him as a worldly visitor, 
and I raised my hands in amazement
What! you come back? 
Is it really you? Is it?'
`Yes, Heathcliff,' he replied, glancing from me up to the windows, 
which reflected a score of glittering moons, but showed no lights from within
`Are they at home? where is she? 
Nelly, you are not glad! you needn't be so disturbed
Is she here? Speak! 
I want to have one word with her--your mistress
Go, and say some person from Gimmerton desires to see her.'
`How will she take it?' I exclaimed
`What will she do? 
The surprise bewilders me--it will put her out of her head! 
And you are Heathcliff! But altered! 
Nay, there's no comprehending it
Have you been for a soldier?'
`Go and carry my message,' he interrupted impatiently
`I'm in hell till you do!'
He lifted the latch, and I entered; 
but when I got to the parlour where Mr and Mrs Linton were, 
I could not persuade myself to proceed
At length, I resolved on making an excuse to ask if they would have the candles lighted, and I opened the door.
They sat together in a window whose lattice lay back against the wall, 
and displayed, beyond the garden trees and the wild green park, the valley of Gimmerton, 
with a long line of mist winding nearly to its top
Wuthering Heights rose above this silvery vapour;
but our old house was invisible; it rather dips down on the other side
Both the room and its occupants, 
and the scene they gazed on, looked wondrously peaceful
I shrank reluctantly from performing my errand; 
and was actually going away leaving it unsaid, 
after having put my question about the candles,
when a sense of my folly compelled me to return, and mutter--`
A person from Gimmerton wishes to see you, ma'am.'
`What does he want?' asked Mrs Linton.`I did not question him,' I answered.
`Well, close the curtains, Nelly,' she said;
 `and bring up tea
I'll be back again directly.'
She quitted the apartment; 
Mr Edgar inquired, carelessly, who it was.
`Someone mistress does not expect,' I replied
`That Heathcliff--you recollect him, sir,--
who used to live at Mr Earnshaw's.'
`What! the gipsy--the ploughboy?' he cried
`Why did you not say so to Catherine?'
`Hush! you must not call him by those names, master,' I said
`She'd be sadly grieved to hear you
She was nearly heartbroken when he ran off
I guess his return will make a jubilee to her.'
Mr Linton walked to a window on the other side of the room that overlooked the court
He unfastened it and leant out
I suppose they were below, for he exclaimed quickly--`Don't stand there, love! 
Bring the person in, if it be anyone particular.' Ere long I heard the click of the latch, and Catherine flew upstairs, breathless and wild; 
too excited to show gladness: 
indeed, by her face, you would rather have surmised an awful calamity.
`Oh, Edgar, Edgar!' she panted, flinging her arms round his neck
`Oh Edgar, darling! 
Heathcliff's come back-he is!'
And she tightened her embrace to a squeeze.
`Well, well,' cried her husband crossly, `don't strangle me for that! 
He never struck me as such a marvellous treasure
There is no need to be frantic!'
`I know you didn't like him,' she answered, 
repressing a little the intensity of her delight
`Yet, for my sake, you must be friends now
Shall I tell him to come up?'
`Here?' he said, `into the parlour?'
`Where else?' she asked.
He looked vexed, and suggested the kitchen as a more suitable place for him
Mrs Linton eyed him with a droll expression--
half angry, half laughing at his fastidiousness.
`No,' she added after a while; `I cannot sit in the kitchen
Set two tables here, Ellen: one for your master and Miss Isabella, being gentry; 
the other for Heathcliff and myself, being of the lower orders
Will that please you, dear? 
Or must I have a fire lighted elsewhere? 
If so, give directions
I'll run down and secure my guest
I'm afraid the joy is too great to be real!'
She was about to dart off again; but Edgar arrested her.
`You bid him step up,' he said, addressing me! 
`and, Catherine, try to be glad, without being absurd! 
the whole household need not witness the sight of your welcoming a runaway servant as a brother.'
I descended and found Heathcliff waiting under the porch, 
evidently anticipating an invitation to enter
He followed my guidance without waste of words, 
and I ushered him into the presence of the master and mistress, 
whose flushed cheeks betrayed signs of warm talking
But the lady's glowed with another feeling when her friend appeared at the door: 
she sprang forward, took both his hands, and led him to Linton; 
and then she seized Linton's reluctant fingers and crushed them into his
Now fully revealed by the fire and candlelight, 
I was amazed, more than ever, to behold the transformation of Heathcliff
He had grown a tall, athletic, well-formed man; 
beside whom, my master seemed quite slender and youth-like
His upright carriage suggested the idea of his having been in the army
His countenance was much older in expression and decision of feature than Mr Linton's; 
it looked intelligent, and retained no marks of former degradation
A half-civilized ferocity lurked yet in the depressed brows and eyes full of black fire, 
but it was subdued; 
and his manner was even dignified: 
quite divested of roughness, though too stern for grace
My master's surprise equalled or exceeded mine: 
he remained for a minute at a loss how to address the ploughboy, as he had called him
Heathcliff dropped his slight hand, and stood looking at him coolly till he chose to speak.
`Sit down, sir,' he said, at length
`Mrs Linton, recalling old times, would have me give you a cordial reception; 
and, of course, I am gratified when anything occurs to please her.'
`And I also,' answered Heathcliff, `especially if it be anything in which I have a part
I shall stay an hour or two willingly.'
He took a seat opposite Catherine, 
who kept her gaze fixed on him as if she feared he would vanish were she to remove it
He did not raise his to her often: 
a quick glance now and then sufficed; 
but it flashed back, each time more confidently, the undisguised delight he drank from hers
They were too much absorbed in their mutual joy to suffer embarrassment
Not so Mr Edgar:
he grew pale with pure annoyance: 
a feeling that reached its climax when his lady rose, 
and stepping across the rug, seized Heathcliff's hands again, and laughed like one beside herself.
`I shall think it a dream tomorrow!' she cried
`I shall not be able to believe that I have seen, 
and touched, and spoken to you once more
And yet, cruel Heathcliff! 
you don't deserve this welcome
To be absent and silent for three years, 
and never to think of me!'
`A little more than you have thought of me,' he murmured
`I heard of your marriage, Cathy, not long since; 
and, while waiting in the yard below, I meditated this plan:--
just to have one glimpse of your face, a stare of surprise, perhaps, and pretended pleasure; 
afterwards settle my score with Hindley; 
and then prevent the law by doing execution on myself
Your welcome has put these ideas out of my mind; 
but beware of meeting me with another aspect next time! 
Nay, you'll not drive me off again
You were really sorry for me, were you? 
Well, there was cause
I've fought through a bitter life since I last heard your voice; 
and you must forgive me, for I struggled only for you!'
`Catherine, unless we are to have cold tea, please to come to the table,' interrupted Linton, 
striving to preserve his ordinary tone, 
and a due measure of politeness
`Mr Heathcliff will have a long walk, wherever he may lodge tonight;
and I'm thirsty.'
She took her post before the urn; 
and Miss Isabella came, summoned by the bell; 
then, having handed their chairs forward, I left the room
The meal hardly endured ten minutes
Catherine's cup was never filled: 
she could neither eat nor drink
Edgar had made a slop in his saucer, and scarcely swallowed a mouthful
Their guest did not protract his stay that evening above an hour longer
I asked, as he departed, if he went to Gimmerton?
`No, to Wuthering Heights,' he answered: 
`Mr Earnshaw invited me, when I called this morning.'
Mr Earnshaw invited him! 
and he called on Mr Earnshaw! 
I pondered this sentence painfully, after he was gone
Is he turning out a bit of a hypocrite, and coming into the country to work mischief under a cloak? 
I mused: I had a presentiment in the bottom of my heart that he had better have remained away.
About the middle of the night, 
I was wakened from my first nap by Mrs Linton gliding into my chamber, taking a seat on my bedside, and pulling me by the hair to rouse me.
`I cannot rest, Ellen,' she said, by way of apology
`And I want some living creature to keep me company in my happiness! 
Edgar is sulky, because I'm glad of a thing that does not interest him: 
he refuses to open his mouth, except to utter pettish, silly speeches; 
and he affirmed I was cruel and selfish for wishing to talk when he was so sick and sleepy
He always contrives to be sick at the least cross! 
I gave a few sentences of commendation to Heathcliff, 
and he, either for a headache or a pang of envy, began to cry: 
so I got up and left him.'
`What use is it praising Heathcliff to him?' I answered
`As lads they had an aversion to each other, 
and Heathcliff would hate just as much to hear him praised: it's human nature
Let Mr Linton alone about him, unless you would like an open quarrel between them.'
`But does it not show great weakness?' pursued she
`I'm not envious: 
I never feel hurt at the brightness of Isabella's yellow hair and the whiteness of her skin, at her dainty elegance, 
and the fondness all the family exhibit for her
Even you, Nelly, if we have a dispute sometimes, you back Isabella at once; 
and I yield like a foolish mother: 
I call her a darling, and flatter her into a good temper
It pleases her brother to see us cordial, and that pleases me
But they are very much alike: 
they are spoiled children, and fancy the world was made for their accommodation; 
and though I humour both, I think a smart chastisement might improve them, all the same.'
`You're mistaken, Mrs Linton,' said I
`They humour you: I know what there would be to do if they did not
You can well afford to indulge their passing whims as long as their business is to anticipate all your desires
You may, however, fall out, at last, over something of equal consequence to both sides; 
and then those you term weak are very capable of being as obstinate as you.'
`And then we shall fight to the death, shan't we, Nelly?' she returned, laughing
`No! I tell you, I have such faith in Linton's love, 
that I believe I might kill him, and he wouldn't wish to retaliate.'
I advised her to value him the more for his affection.
`I do,' she answered, `but he needn't resort to whining for trifles
It is childish; 
and, instead of melting into tears because I said that Heathcliff was now worthy of anyone's regard, 
and it would honour the first gentleman in the country to be his friend, 
he ought to have said it for me, 
and been delighted from sympathy
He must get accustomed to him, and he may as well like him: 
considering how Heathcliff has reason to object to him, 
I'm sure he behaved excellently!'
`What do you think of his going to Wuthering Heights?' I inquired
`He is reformed in every respect, apparently: 
quite a Christian: 
offering the right hand of fellowship to his enemies all around!'
`He explained it,' she replied
`I wondered as much as you
He said he called to gather information concerning me from you, 
supposing you resided there still; 
and Joseph told Hindley, 
who came out and fell to questioning him of what he had been doing, 
and how he had been living; 
and finally, desired him to walk in
There were some persons sitting at cards; 
Heathcliff joined them; 
my brother lost some money to him, and, finding him plentifully supplied, 
he requested that he would come again in the evening: to which he consented
Hindley is too reckless to select his acquaintance prudently: 
he doesn't trouble himself to reflect on the causes he might have for mistrusting one whom he has basely injured
But Heathcliff affirms his principal reason for resuming a connection with his ancient persecutor is a wish to install himself in quarters at walking distance from the Grange, 
and an attachment to the house where we lived together; 
and likewise a hope that I shall have more opportunities of seeing him there than I could have if he settled in Gimmerton
He means to offer liberal payment for permission to lodge at the Heights; 
and doubtless my brother's covetousness will prompt him to accept the terms:
he was always greedy; though what he grasps with one hand he flings away with the other.'
`It's a nice place for a young man to fix his dwelling in!' said I
`Have you no fear of the consequences, `Mrs Linton?'
`None for my friend,' she replied: `his strong head will keep him from danger; 
a little for Hindley: 
but he can't be made morally worse than he is; 
and I stand between him and bodily harm
The event of this evening has reconciled me to God and humanity! 
I had risen in angry rebellion against Providence
Oh, I've endured very, very bitter misery, Nelly! 
If that creature knew how bitter, he'd be ashamed to cloud its removal with idle petulance
It was kindness for him which induced me to bear it alone: 
had I expressed the agony I frequently felt, 
he would have been taught to long for its alleviation as ardently as l
However, it's over, and I'll take no revenge on his folly; 
I can afford to suffer anything hereafter! 
Should the meanest thing alive slap me on the cheek, I'd not only turn the other, 
but, I'd ask pardon for provoking it; 
and, as a proof, I'll go make my peace with Edgar instantly
Good night! I'm an angel!'
In this self-complacent conviction she departed; and the success of her fulfilled resolution was obvious on the morrow: Mr Linton had not only abjured his peevishness (though his spirits seemed still subdued by Catherine's exuberance of vivacity), but he ventured no objection to her taking Isabella with her to Wuthering Heights in the afternoon; and she rewarded him with such a summer of sweetness and affection in return, as made the house a paradise for several days; both master and servants profiting from the perpetual sunshine.
Heathcliff--Mr Heathcliff I should say in future--used the liberty of visiting at Thrushcross Grange cautiously, at first: 
he seemed estimating how far its owner would bear his intrusion
Catherine, also, deemed it judicious to moderate her expressions of pleasure in receiving him; 
and he gradually established his right to be expected
He retained a great deal of the reserve for which his boyhood was remarkable; 
and that served to repress all startling demonstrations of feeling
My master's uneasiness experienced a lull, 
and further circumstances diverted it into another channel for a space.
His new source of trouble sprang from the not anticipated misfortune of Isabella Linton evincing a sudden and irresistible attraction towards the tolerated guest
She was at that time a charming young lady of eighteen; 
infantile in manners, though possessed of keen wit, keen feelings, 
and a keen temper, too, if irritated
Her brother, who loved her tenderly, was appalled at this fantastic preference
Leaving aside the degradation of an alliance with a nameless man, 
and the possible fact that his property, in default of heirs male, might pass into such a one's power, 
he had sense to comprehend Heathcliff's disposition: 
to know that, though his exterior was altered, his mind was unchangeable and unchanged
And he dreaded that mind: 
it revolted him: he shrank forebodingly from the idea of committing Isabella to his keeping
He would have recoiled still more had he been aware that her attachment rose unsolicited, 
and was bestowed where it awakened no reciprocation of sentiment; 
for the minute he discovered its existence, 
he laid the blame on Heathcliff's deliberate designing.
We had all remarked, during some time, 
that Miss Linton fretted and pined over something
She grew cross and wearisome; 
snapping at and teasing Catherine continually, 
at the imminent risk of exhausting her limited patience
We excused her, to a certain extent, on the plea of ill-health: 
she was dwindling and fading before our eyes
But one day, 
when she had been peculiarly wayward, rejecting her breakfast, complaining that the servants did not do what she told them; 
that the mistress would allow her to be nothing in the house, and Edgar neglected her; 
that she had caught a cold with the doors being left open, 
and we let the parlour fire go out on purpose to vex her, 
with a hundred yet more frivolous accusations, Mrs Linton peremptorily insisted that she should get to bed; 
and, having scolded her heartily, threatened to send for the doctor
Mention of Kenneth caused her to exclaim, instantly, that her health was perfect, and it was only Catherine's harshness which made her unhappy.
`How can you say I am harsh, you naughty fondling?' cried the mistress, amazed at the unreasonable assertion
`You are surely losing your reason
When have I been harsh, tell me?'
`Yesterday,' sobbed Isabella, `and now!'
`Yesterday!' said her sister-in-law
`On what occasion?'
`In our walk along the moor: 
you told me to ramble where I pleased, while you sauntered on with Mr Heathcliff!'
`And that's your notion of harshness?' said Catherine, laughing
`It was no hint that your company was superfluous: 
we didn't care whether you kept with us or not; 
I merely thought Heathcliffs talk would have nothing entertaining for your ears.
`Oh no,' wept the young lady; 
`you wished me away, because you knew I liked to be there!'
`Is she sane?' asked Mrs Linton, appealing to me
`I'll repeat our conversation, word for word, Isabella; 
and you point out any charm it could have had for you.'
`I don't mind the conversation,' she answered: 
`I wanted to be with---'
`Well!' said Catherine, perceiving her hesitate to complete the sentence.
`With him: 
and I won't be always sent off!' she continued, kindling up
`You are a dog in the manger, Cathy, and desire no one to be loved but yourself!'
`You are an impertinent little monkey!' exclaimed Mrs Linton, in surprise
`But I'll not believe this idiocy! 
It is impossible that you can covet the admiration of Heathcliff--
that you consider him an agreeable person! 
I hope I have misunderstood you, Isabella?'
`No, you have not,' said the infatuated girl
`I love him more than ever you loved Edgar; 
and he might love me, if you would let him!'
`I wouldn't be you for a kingdom, then!' Catherine declared emphatically: 
and she seemed to speak sincerely
`Nelly, help me to convince her of her madness
Tell her what Heathcliff is: 
an unreclaimed creature, without refinement, without cultivation: 
an arid wilderness of furze and whinstone
I'd as soon put that little canary into the park on a winter's day, 
as recommend you to bestow your heart on him! 
It is deplorable ignorance of his character, child, and nothing else, 
which makes that dream enter your head
Pray, don't imagine that he conceals depths of benevolence and affection beneath a stern exterior! 
He's not a rough diamond--a pearl-containing oyster of a rustic: he's a fierce, pitiless, wolfish man
I never say to him, "Let this or that enemy alone, 
because it would be ungenerous or cruel to harm them"; 
I say, "Let them alone, because I should hate them to be wronged": 
and he'd crush you like a sparrow's egg, Isabella, if he found you a troublesome charge
I know he couldn't love a Linton; 
and yet he'd be quite capable of marrying your fortune and expectations! 
avarice is growing with him a besetting sin
There's my picture: 
and I'm his friend--
so much so, that had he thought seriously to catch you, 
I should, perhaps, have held my tongue, and let you fall into his trap.'
Miss Linton regarded her sister-in-law with indignation.
`For shame! for shame!' she repeated angrily, `you are worse than twenty foes, you poisonous friend!'
`Ah! you won't believe me, then?' said Catherine
`You think I speak from wicked selfishness?'
`I'm certain you do,' retorted Isabella; `and I shudder at you!'
`Good!' cried the other
`Try for yourself, if that be your spirit: 
I have done, and yield the argument to your saucy insolence.'
`And I must suffer for her egotism!' she sobbed, as Mrs Linton left the room
`All, all is against me; 
she has blighted my single consolation
But she uttered falsehoods, didn't she? 
Mr Heathcliff is not a fiend: 
he has an honourable soul, and a true one, or how could he remember her?'
`Banish him from your thoughts, miss,' I said
`He's a bird of bad omen: no mate for you
Mrs Linton spoke strongly, and yet I can't contradict her
She is better acquainted with his heart than I, or anyone besides; 
and she would never represent him as worse than he is
Honest people don't hide their deeds
How has he been living? how has he got rich? 
why is he staying at Wuthering Heights, the house of a man whom he abhors? 
They say Mr Earnshaw is worse and worse since he came
They sit up all night together continually, 
and Hindley has been borrowing money on his land, 
and does nothing but play and drink: 
I heard only a week ago--it was Joseph who told me--
I met him at Gimmerton: "Nelly," he said, "we's hae a crahnr's `quest enah, at ahr folks
One on `em's a'most getten his finger cut off wi' hauding t'other froo' sticking hisseln loike a cawlf
That's maister, yah knaw, `ut's soa up uh going tuh t' grand `sizes
He's noan feard uh t' bench uh judges, norther Paul, nur Peter, nur John, nur Matthew, nor noan on `em, nut he! 
He fair likes--he langs to set his brazened face agean `em! 
And yon bonny lad Heathcliff, yah mind, he's a rare `un! 
He can girn a laugh as weel's onybody at a raight divil's jest
Does he niver say nowt of his fine living amang us, when he goas tuh t' Grange? 
This is t' way on't:--up at sundahn; 
dice, brandy, cloised shutters, und can'le-lught till next day at nooin: 
then, t fooil gangs banning un raving to his cham'er, makking dacent fowks dig thur fingers i' thur lugs fur varry shaume; 
un' the knave, wah he carn cahnt his brass, un' ate, un' sleep, un' off to his neighbour's tuh gossip wi' t' wife
I' course, he tells Dame Catherine hah hor father's goold runs intuh his pocket, 
and her father's son gallops dahn t' Broad road, 
while he flees afore to oppen t' pikes?" Now, Miss Linton, Joseph is an old rascal, but no liar; 
and, if his account of Heathcliff's conduct be true, you would never think of desiring such a husband, would you?'
`You are leagued with the rest, Ellen!' she replied
`I'll not listen to your slanders
What malevolence you must have to wish to convince me that there is no happiness in the world!'
Whether she would have got over this fancy if left to herself or persevered in nursing it perpetually, 
I cannot say: 
she had little time to reflect
The day after, there was a justice-meeting at the next town; 
my master was obliged to attend; 
and Mr Heathcliff, aware of his absence, called rather earlier than usual
Catherine and Isabella were sitting in the library, on hostile terms, but silent
The latter alarmed at her recent indiscretion, 
and the disclosure she had made of her secret feelings in a transient fit of passion; 
the former, on mature consideration, really offended with her companion; 
and, if she laughed again at her pertness, inclined to make it no laughing matter to her
She did laugh as she saw Heathcliff pass the window
I was sweeping the hearth, 
and I noticed a mischievous smile on her lips
Isabella, absorbed in her meditations, 
or a book, remained till the door opened; 
and it was too late to attempt an escape, 
which she would gladly have done had it been practicable.
`Come in, that's right!' exclaimed the mistress gaily, pulling a chair to the fire
`Here are two people sadly in need of a third to thaw the ice between them; 
and you are the very one we should both of us choose
Heathcliff, I'm proud to show you, at last, 
somebody that dotes on you more than myself
I expect you to feel flattered
Nay, it's not Nelly; 
don't look at her! 
My poor little sister-in-law is breaking her heart by mere contemplation of your physical and moral beauty
It lies in your own power to be Edgar's brother! 
No, no, Isabella, you shan't run off,' 
she continued, arresting, with feigned playfulness, the confounded girl, who had risen indignantly
`We were quarrelling like cats about you, Heathcliff; 
and I was fairly beaten in protestations of devotion and admiration: a
nd, moreover, I was informed that if I would but have the manners to stand aside, my rival, 
as she will ha"e herself to be, would shoot a shaft into your soul that would fix you for ever, 
and send my image into eternal oblivion!'
`Catherine!' said Isabella, calling up her dignity, and disdaining to struggle from the tight grasp that held her
`I'd thank you to adhere to the truth and not slander me, even in joke! 
Mr Heathcliff, be kind enough to bid this friend of yours release me: 
she forgets that you and I are not intimate acquaintances; 
and what amuses her is painful to me beyond expression.'
As the guest answered nothing, but took his seat, 
and looked thoroughly indifferent what sentiments she cherished concerning him, 
she turned and whispered an earnest appeal for liberty to her tormentor.
`By no means!' cried Mrs Linton in answer
`I won't be named a dog in the manger again
You shall stay: now then! 
Heathcliff, why don't you evince satisfaction at my pleasant news? 
Isabella swears that the love Edgar has for me is nothing to that she entertains for you
I'm sure she made some speech of the kind; 
did she not, Ellen? 
And she has fasted ever since the day before yesterday's walk, 
from sorrow and rage that I dispatched her out of your society under the idea of its being unacceptable.
`I think you belie her,' said Heathcliff, twisting his chair to face them
`She wishes to be out of my society now, at any rate!' 
And he stared hard at the object of discourse, as one might do at a strange repulsive animal: 
a centipede from the Indies, 
for instance, 
which curiosity leads one to examine in spite of the aversion it raises
The poor thing couldn't bear that: 
she grew white and red in rapid succession,
and, while tears beaded her lashes, bent the strength of her small fingers to loosen the firm clutch of Catherine; 
and perceiving that as fast as she raised one finger off her arm another closed down, 
and she could not remove the whole together, 
she began to make use of her nails; 
and their sharpness presently ornamented the detainer's with crescents of red.
`There's a tigress!' exclaimed Mrs Linton, setting her free, and shaking her hand with pain
`Begone, for God's sake, and hide your vixen face! 
How foolish to reveal those talons to him
Can't you fancy the conclusions he'll draw? 
Look, Heathcliff! 
they are instruments that will do execution--
you must beware of your eyes.
`I'd wrench them off her fingers, if they ever menaced me,' he answered brutally, when the door had closed after her
`But what did you mean by teasing the creature in that manner, Cathy? 
You were not speaking the truth, were you?'
`I assure you I was,' she returned
`She has been pining for your sake several weeks; 
and raving about you this morning, and pouring forth a deluge of abuse, 
because I represented your failings in a plain light, for the purpose of mitigating her adoration
But don't notice it further: 
I wished to punish her sauciness, that's all
I like her too well, my dear Heathcliff, to let you absolutely seize and devour her up.'
`And I like her too ill to attempt it,' said he, `except in a very ghoulish fashion
You'd hear of odd things if I lived alone with that mawkish, waxen face: 
the most ordinary would be painting on its white the colours of the rainbow, 
and turning the blue eyes black, 
every day or two: 
they detestably resemble Linton's.'
`Delectably!' observed Catherine
`They are dove's eyes--angel's!'
`She's her brother's heir, is she not?' he asked, after a brief silence.
`I should be sorry to think so,' returned his companion
`Half a dozen nephews shall erase her title, please Heaven! 
Abstract your mind from the subject at present: 
you are too prone to covet your neighbour's goods; remember this neighbour's goods are mine.'
`If they were mine, they would be none the less that,' said Heathcliff; 
`but though Isabella Linton may be silly, she is scarcely mad; 
and, in short, we'll dismiss the matter, as you advise.'
From their tongues they did dismiss it; 
and Catherine, probably, from her thoughts
The other, I felt certain, recalled it often in the course of the evening
I saw him smile to himself--grin rather--
and lapse into ominous musing whenever Mrs Linton had occasion to be absent from the apartment.
I determined to watch his movements
My heart invariably cleaved to the master's, in preference to Catherine's side: 
with reason I imagined, for he was kind, and trustful, and honourable; 
and she--she could not be called the opposite, 
yet she seemed to allow herself such wide latitude, 
that I had little faith in her principles, 
and still less sympathy for her feelings
I wanted something to happen which might have the effect of freeing both Wuthering Heights and the Grange of Mr Heathcliff, quietly; 
leaving us as we had been prior to his advent
His visits were a continual nightmare to me; 
and, I suspected, to my master also
His abode at the Heights was an oppression past explaining
I felt that God had forsaken the stray sheep there to its own wicked wanderings, 
and an evil beast prowled between it and the fold, waiting his time to spring and destroy.
Sometimes, while meditating on these things in solitude, 
I've got up in a sudden terror, 
and put on my bonnet to go see how all was at the farm
I've persuaded my conscience that it was a duty to warn him how people talked regarding his ways; 
and then I've recollected his confirmed bad habits, 
and, hopeless of benefiting him, have flinched from re-entering the dismal house, 
doubting if I could bear to be taken at my word.
One time I passed the old gate, going out of my way, on a journey to Gimmerton
It was about the period that my narrative has reached: 
a bright frosty afternoon; the ground bare, and the road hard and dry
I came to a stone where the highway branches off on to the moor at your left hand; 
a rough sand pillar, with the letters W.H
cut on its north side, on the east, G., and on the south-west, T.G
It serves as guide-post to the Grange, the Heights, and village
The sun shone yellow on its grey head, reminding me of summer; 
and I cannot say why, but all at once, a gush of child's sensations flowed into my heart
Hindley and I held it a favourite spot twenty years before
I gazed long at the weather-worn block, and, stooping down, 
perceived a hole near the bottom still full of snail-shells and pebbles, 
which we were fond of storing there with more perishable things; 
and, as fresh as reality, it appeared that I beheld my early playmate seated on the withered turf: 
his dark, square head bent forward, and his little hand scooping out the earth with a piece of slate
`Poor Hindley!' I exclaimed involuntarily
I started: my bodily eye was cheated into a momentary belief that the child lifted its face and stared straight into mine! 
It vanished in a twinkling; 
but immediately I felt an irresistible yearning to be at the Heights
Superstition urged me to comply with this impulse: 
supposing he should be dead! 
I thought--or should die soon!--supposing it were a sign of death! 
The nearer I got to the house the more agitated I grew; 
and on catching sight of it I trembled in every limb
The apparition had outstripped me: 
it stood looking through the gate
That was my first idea on observing an elf-locked, brown-eyed boy setting his ruddy countenance against the bars
Further reflection suggested this must be Hareton, my Hareton, 
not altered greatly since I left him, ten months since.
`God bless thee, darling!' I cried, forgetting instantaneously my foolish fears
`Hareton, it's Nelly! Nelly, thy nurse.'
He retreated out of arm's length, and picked up a large flint.
`I am come to see thy father, Hareton,' I added, guessing from the action that Nelly, 
if she lived in his memory at all, was not recognized as one with me.
He raised his missile to hurl it; 
I commenced a soothing speech, but could not stay his hand: the stone struck my bonnet; 
and then ensued, from the stammering lips of the little fellow, a string of curses, which, 
whether he comprehended them or not, were delivered with practised emphasis, 
and distorted his baby features into a shocking expression of malignity
You may be certain this grieved more than angered me
Fit to cry, I took an orange from my pocket, 
and offered it to propitiate him
He hesitated, and then snatched it from my hold; 
as if he fancied I only intended to tempt and disappoint him
I showed another, keeping it out of his reach.
`Who has taught you those fine words, my bairn?' I inquired
`Damn the curate, and thee! Gie me that,' he replied.
`Tell us where you got your lessons, and you shall have it,' said I
`Who's your master?'
`Devil daddy,' was his answer.
`And what do you learn from daddy?' I continued.
He jumped at the fruit;
I raised it higher
`What does he teach you?' I asked.
`Naught,' said he, `but to keep out of his gait
Daddy cannot bide me, because I swear at him.'
`Ah! and the devil teaches you to swear at daddy?' I observed.
`Ah--nay,' he drawled.
I asked if he liked Mr Heathcliff.
`Ay!' he answered again.
Desiring to have his reasons for liking him, 
I could only gather the sentences--`I known't: 
he pays dad back what he gies to me--
he curses daddy for cursing me
He says I mun do as I will.'
`And the curate does not teach you to read and write then?' I pursued.
`No, I was told the curate should have his--teeth dashed down his throat,--
if he stepped over the threshold--Heathcliff had promised that!'
I put the orange in his hand, 
and bade him tell his father that a woman called Nelly Dean was waiting to speak with him, 
by the garden gate
He went up the walk, and entered the house; 
but, instead of Hindley, Heathcliff appeared on the doorstones; 
and I turned directly and ran down the road as hard as ever I could race, making no halt till I gained the guide-post, 
and feeling as scared as if I had raised a goblin
This is not much connected with Miss Isabella's affair: 
except that it urged me to resolve further on mounting vigilant guard, 
and doing my utmost to check the spread of such bad influence at the Grange: 
even though I should wake a domestic storm, by thwarting Mrs Linton's pleasure.
The next time Heathcliff came, my young lady chanced to be feeding some pigeons in the court
She had never spoken a word to her sister-in-law for three days; 
but she had likewise dropped her fretful complaining, and we found it a great comfort
Heathcliff had not the habit of bestowing a single unnecessary civility on Miss Linton, I knew
Now, as soon as he beheld her, 
his first precaution was to take a sweeping survey of the house front
I was standing by the kitchen window, 
but I drew out of sight
He then stepped across the pavement to her, and said something: 
she seemed embarrassed, and desirous of getting away; 
to prevent it, he laid his hand on her arm
She averted her face: 
he apparently put some question which she had no mind to answer
There was another rapid glance at the house, and supposing himself unseen, 
the scoundrel had the impudence to embrace her.
`Judas! traitor!' I ejaculated
`You are a hypocrite, too, are you? A deliberate deceiver.'
`Who is, Nelly?' said Catherine's voice at my elbow: 
I had been over intent on watching the pair outside to mark her entrance.
`Your worthless friend!' I answered warmly: `the sneaking rascal yonder
Ah, he has caught a glimpse of us--he is coming in! 
I wonder will he have the art to find a plausible excuse for making love to Miss, 
when he told you he hated her?'
Mrs Linton saw Isabella tear herself free, and run into the garden; 
and a minute after, Heathcliff opened the door
I couldn't withhold giving some loose to my indignation; 
but Catherine angrily insisted on silence, and threatened to order me out of the kitchen, 
if I dared to be so presumptuous as to put in my insolent tongue.
`To hear you, people might think you were the mistress!' she cried
`You want setting down in your right place! 
Heathcliff, what are you about, raising this stir? 
I said you must let Isabella alone!--
I beg you will, unless you are tired of being received here, and wish Linton to draw the bolts against you!'
`God forbid that he should try!' answered the black villain
I detested him just then
`God keep him meek and patient! 
Every day I grow madder after sending him to heaven!'
`Hush!' said Catherine, shutting the inner door
`Don't vex me
Why have you disregarded my request? 
Did she come across you on purpose?'
`What is it to you?' he growled
`I.have a right to kiss her, if she chooses; 
and you have no right to object
I'm not your husband: 
you needn't be jealous of me!'
`I'm not jealous of you,' replied the mistress, `I'm jealous for you
Clear your face: you shan't scowl at me!
If you like Isabella, you shall marry her
But do you like her? 
Tell the truth, Heathcliff! 
There, you won't answer
I'm certain you don't!'
`And would Mr Linton approve of his sister marrying that man?' I inquired.
`Mr Linton should approve,' returned my lady, decisively.
`He might spare himself the trouble,' said Heathcliff: 
`I could do as well without his approbation
And as to you, Catherine, 
I have a mind to speak a few words now, while we are at it
I want you to be aware that I know you have treated me infernally--infernally! 
Do you hear? 
And if you flatter yourself that I don't perceive it, you are a fool; 
and if you think I can be consoled by sweet words, you are an idiot; 
and if you fancy I'll suffer unrevenged, I'll convince you of the contrary, in a very little while! 
Meantime, thank you for telling me your sister-in-law's secret: 
I swear I'll make the most of it
And stand you aside!'
`What new phase of his character is this?' exclaimed Mrs Linton, in amazement
`I've treated you infernally--and you'll take your revenge! 
How will you take it, ungrateful brute? 
How have I treated you infernally?'
`I seek no revenge on you,' replied Heathcliff less vehemently
`That's not the plan
The tyrant grinds down his slaves and they don't turn against him; 
they crush those beneath them
You are welcome to torture me to death for your amusement, 
only allow me to amuse myself a little in the same style, 
and refrain from insult as much as you are able
Having levelled my palace, 
don't erect a hovel and complacently admire your own charity in giving me that for a home
If I imagined you really wished me to marry Isabel, I'd cut my throat!'
`Oh, the evil is that I am not jealous, is it?' cried Catherine
`Well, I won't repeat my offer of a wife: 
it is as bad as offering Satan a lost soul
Your bliss lies, like his, in inflicting misery
You prove it
Edgar is restored from the ill-temper he gave way to at your coming; 
I begin to be secure and tranquil; 
and you, restless to know us at peace, appear resolved on exciting a quarrel
Quarrel with Edgar, if you please, Heathcliff, and deceive his sister: 
you'll hit on exactly the most efficient method of revenging yourself on me.'
The conversation ceased
Mrs Linton sat down by the fire, flushed and gloomy
The spirit which served her was growing intractable: 
she could neither lay nor control it
He stood on the hearth with folded arms, brooding on his evil thoughts; 
and in this position I left them to seek the master, who was wondering what kept Catherine below so long.
`Ellen,' said he, when I entered, `have you seen your mistress?'
`Yes; she's in the kitchen, sir,' I answered
`She's sadly put out by Mr Heathcliff's behaviour: 
and, indeed, I do think it's time to arrange his visits on another footing
There's harm in being too soft, 
and now it's come to this--
`And I related the scene in the court, 
and, as near as I dared, the whole subsequent dispute
I fancied it could not be very prejudicial to Mrs Linton; 
unless she made it so afterwards, by assuming the defensive for her guest
Edgar Linton had difficulty in hearing me to the close
His first words revealed that he did not clear his wife of blame.
`This is insufferable!' he exclaimed
`It is disgraceful that she should own him for a friend, 
and force his company on me! 
Call me two men out of the hall, Ellen
Catherine shall linger no longer to argue with the low ruffian--I have humoured her enough.'
He descended, and bidding the servants wait in the passage, went, followed by me, to the kitchen
Its occupants had recommenced their angry discussion: 
Mrs Linton, at least, was scolding with renewed vigour; 
Heathcliff had moved to the window, and hung his head, somewhat cowed by her violent rating apparently
He saw the master first, and made a hasty motion that she should be silent; 
which she obeyed, abruptly, on discovering the reason of his intimation.
`How is this?' said Linton, addressing her; 
`what notion of propriety must you have to remain here, 
after the language which has been held to you by that blackguard? I suppose, 
because it is his ordinary talk, you think nothing of it; 
you are habituated to his baseness, and, perhaps, imagine I can get used to it too!'
`Have you been listening at the door, Edgar?' asked the mistress, in a tone particularly calculated to provoke her husband, 
implying both carelessness and contempt of his irritation
Heathcliff, who had raised his eyes at the former speech, gave a sneering laugh at the latter; 
on purpose, it seemed, to draw Mr Linton's attention to him
He succeeded; 
but Edgar did not mean to entertain him with any high flights of passion.
`I have been so far forbearing with you, sir,' he said quietly; 
`not that I was ignorant of your miserable, degraded character, 
but I felt you were only partly responsible for that; 
and Catherine wishing to keep up your acquaintance, I acquiesced--foolishly
Your presence is a moral poison that would contaminate the most virtuous: 
for that cause, and to prevent worse consequences, 
I shall deny you hereafter admission into this house, and give notice now that I require your instant departure
Three minutes' delay will render it involuntary and ignominious.'
Heathcliff measured the height and breadth of the speaker with an eye full of derision.
`Cathy, this lamb of yours threatens like a bull!' he said
`It is in danger of splitting its skull against my knuckles
By God! Mr Linton, I'm mortally sorry that you are not worth knocking down!'
My master glanced towards the passage, and signed me to fetch the men: 
he had no intention of hazarding a personal encounter
I obeyed the hint; but Mrs Linton, suspecting something, followed; 
and when I attempted to call them, she pulled me back, slammed the door to, and locked it.
`Fair means!' she said, in answer to her husband's look of angry surprise 
`If you have not courage to attack him, make an apology, or allow yourself to be beaten
It will correct you of feigning more valour than you possess
No, I'll swallow the key before you shall get it! 
I'm delightfully rewarded for my kindness to each! 
After constant indulgence of one's weak nature, and the other's bad one, 
I earn for thanks two samples of blind ingratitude, stupid to absurdity! 
Edgar, I was defending you and yours; 
and I wish Heathcliff may flog you sick, for daring to think an evil thought of me.!'
It did not need the medium of a flogging to produce that effect on the master
He tried to wrest the key from Catherine's grasp, and for safety she flung it into the hottest part of the fire; 
whereupon Mr Edgar was taken with a nervous trembling, 
and his countenance grew deadly pale
For his life he could not avert that access of emotion; 
mingled anguish and humiliation overcame him completely
He leant on the back of a chair, and covered his face.
`Oh, heavens! In old days, this would win you knighthood!' exclaimed Mrs Linton
`We are vanquished! 
we are vanquished! 
Heathcliff would as soon lift a finger at you as a king would march his army against a colony of mice
Cheer up! you shan't be hurt! 
Your type is not a lamb, it's a sucking leveret.'
`I wish you joy of the milk-blooded coward, Cathy!' said her friend
`I compliment you on your taste
And that is the slavering, shivering thing you preferred to me! 
I would not strike him with my fist, but I'd kick him with my foot, and experience considerable satisfaction
Is he weeping, or is he going to faint for fear?'
The fellow approached and gave the chair on which Linton rested a push
He'd better have kept his distance; 
my master quickly sprang erect, and struck him full on the throat a blow that would have levelled a slighter man
It took his breath for a minute; 
and while he choked, Mr Linton walked out by the back door into the yard, and from thence to the front entrance.
`There! you've done with coming here,' cried Catherine
`Get away, now; he'll return with a brace of pistols, and half a dozen assistants
If he did overhear us, of course he'd never forgive you
You've played him an ill turn, Heathcliff! 
But go--make haste! I'd rather see Edgar at bay than you.'
`Do you suppose I'm going with that blow burning in my gullet?' he thundered
`By hell, no! I'll crush his ribs in like a rotten hazel nut before I cross the threshold! 
If I don't floor him now, I shall murder him some time; 
so, as you value his existence, let me get at him!'
`He's not coming,' I interposed, framing a bit of a lie
`There's the coachman and the two gardeners; 
you'll surely not wait to be thrust into the road by them! 
Each has a bludgeon; and master will, very likely, be watching from the parlour windows, to see that they fulfil his orders.'
The gardeners and coachman were there; 
but Linton was with them
They had already entered the court
Heathcliff, on second thoughts, resolved to avoid a struggle against the three underlings; 
he seized the poker, smashed the lock from the inner door, and made his escape as they tramped in.
Mrs Linton, who was very much excited, bade me accompany her upstairs
She did not know my share in contributing to the disturbance, 
and I was anxious to keep her in ignorance.
`I'm nearly distracted, Nelly!' she exclaimed, throwing herself on the sofa
`A thousand smiths' hammers are beating in my head! 
Tell Isabella to shun me; 
this uproar is owing to her; 
and should she or anyone else aggravate my anger at present, I shall get wild
And, Nelly, say to Edgar, 
if you see him again tonight, that I'm in danger of being seriously ill
I wish it may prove true
He has startled and distressed me shockingly! 
I want to frighten him
Besides, he might come and begin a string of abuse or complainings; 
I'm certain I should recriminate, and God knows where we should end! 
Will you do so, my good Nelly? 
You are aware that I am in no way blamable in this matter
What possessed him to turn listener? 
Heathcliff's talk was outrageous, after you left us; 
but I could soon have diverted him from Isabella, and the rest meant nothing
Now all is dashed wrong by the fool's craving to hear evil of self, that haunts some people like a demon! 
Had Edgar never gathered our conversation, he would never have been the worse for it
Really, when he opened on me in that unreasonable tone of displeasure after I had scolded Heathcliff till I was hoarse for him, 
I did not care, hardly, what they did to each other; 
especially as I felt that, however the scene closed, we should all be driven asunder for nobody knows how long! 
Well, if I cannot keep Heathcliff for my friend--
if Edgar will be mean and jealous, I'll try to break their hearts by breaking my own
That will be a prompt way of finishing all, when I am pushed to extremity! 
But it's a deed to be reserved for a forlorn hope; 
I'd not take Linton by surprise with it
To this point he has been discreet in dreading to provoke me; 
you must represent the peril of quitting that policy, and remind him of my passionate temper, verging, when kindled, on frenzy
I wish you could dismiss that apathy out of your countenance, and look rather more anxious about me.'
The stolidity with which I received these instructions was, no doubt, rather exasperating: 
for they were delivered in perfect sincerity; 
but I believed a person who could plan the turning of her fits of passion to account, 
beforehand, might, by exerting her will, manage to control herself tolerably, even while under their influence; 
and I did not wish to `frighten' her husband, as she said, and multiply his annoyances for the purpose of serving her selfishness
Therefore I said nothing when I met the master coming towards the parlour; 
but I took the liberty of turning back to listen whether they would resume their quarrel together
He began to speak first.
`Remain where you are, Catherine,' he said; 
without any anger in his voice, but with much sorrowful despondency
`I shall not stay
I am neither come to wrangle nor be reconciled; 
but I wish just to learn whether, after this evening's events, you intend to continue your intimacy with--
`Oh, for mercy's sake,' interrupted the mistress, stamping her foot, `for mercy's sake, let us hear no more of it now! 
Your cold blood cannot be worked into a fever: 
your veins are full of ice-water; 
but mine are boiling, 
and the sight of such chillness makes them dance.'
`To get rid of me, answer my question,' persevered Mr Linton
`You must answer it; 
and that violence does not alarm me
I have found that you can be as stoical as anyone, when you please
Will you give up Heathcliff hereafter, or will you give up me? 
It is impossible for you to be my friend and his at the same time; 
and I absolutely require to know which you choose.'
`I require to be let alone!' exclaimed Catherine furiously
`I demand it! 
Don't you see I can scarcely stand? Edgar, you--you leave me!'
She rang the bell till it broke with a twang; 
I entered leisurely
It was enough to try the temper of a saint, such senseless, wicked rages! 
There she lay dashing her head against the arm of the sofa, and grinding her teeth, 
so that you might fancy she would crash them to splinters! 
Mr Linton stood looking at her in sudden compunction and fear
He told me to fetch some water
She had no breath for speaking
I brought a glass full; 
and as she would not drink, I sprinkled it on her face
In a few seconds she stretched herself out stiff, 
and turned up her eyes, while her cheeks, at once blanched and livid, assumed the aspect of death
Linton looked terrified.
`There is nothing in the world the matter,' I whispered
I did not want him to yield, though I could not help being afraid in my heart.
`She has blood on her lips!' he said, shuddering.
`Never mind!' I answered tartly
And I told him how she had resolved, previous to his coming, 
on exhibiting a fit of frenzy
I incautiously gave the account aloud, 
and she heard me; for she started up--
her hair flying over her shoulders, her eyes flashing, 
the muscles of her neck and arms standing out preternaturally
I made up my mind for broken bones, at least; 
but she only glared about her for an instant, and then rushed from the room
The master directed me to follow; 
I did, to her chamber door: 
she hindered me from going farther by securing it against me.
As she never offered to descend to breakfast next morning, 
I went to ask whether she would have some carried up
`No!' she replied peremptorily
The same question was repeated at dinner and tea; 
and again on the morrow after, and received the same answer
Mr Linton, on his part, spent his time in the library, and did not inquire concerning his wife's occupations
Isabella and he had had an hour's interview, 
during which he tried to elicit from her some sentiment of proper horror for Heathcliff's advances: 
but he could make nothing of her evasive replies, and was obliged to close the examination unsatisfactorily; 
adding, however, a solemn warning, 
that if she were so insane as to encourage that worthless suitor, 
it would dissolve all bonds of relationship between herself and him.
While Miss Linton moped about the park and garden, always silent, and almost always in tears; 
and her brother shut himself up among books that he never opened--wearying, 
I guessed, with a continual vague expectation that Catherine, repenting her conduct, 
would come of her own accord to ask pardon, and seek a reconciliation--
and she fasted pertinaciously, under the idea, probably, that at every meal, Edgar was ready to choke for her absence, 
and pride alone held him from running to cast himself at her feet: 
I went about my household duties, 
convinced that the Grange had but one sensible soul in its walls, and that lodged in my body
I wasted no condolences on Miss, nor any expostulations on my mistress; 
nor did I pay much attention to the sighs of my master, 
who yearned to hear his lady's name, since he might not hear her voice
I determined they should come about as they pleased for me; 
and though it was a tiresomely slow process, 
I began to rejoice at length in a faint dawn of its progress: 
as I thought at first.
Mrs Linton, on the third day, unbarred her door, 
and having finished the water in her pitcher and decanter, desired a renewed supply, 
and a basin of gruel, for she believed she was dying
That I set down as a speech meant for Edgar's ears; 
I believed no such thing, 
so I kept it to myself and brought her some tea and dry toast
She ate and drank eagerly; 
and sank back on her pillow again clenching her hands and groaning
`Oh, I will die,' she exclaimed, `since no one cares anything about me
I wish I had not taken that.' 
Then a good while after I heard her murmur, `No, I'll not die--he'd be glad--he does not love me at all--he would never miss me!'
`Did you want anything, ma'am?' I inquired, still preserving my external composure, 
in spite of her ghastly countenance, and strange exaggerated manner.
`What is that apathetic being doing?' 
she demanded, pushing her thick entangled locks from her wasted face
`Has he fallen into a lethargy, or is he dead?'
`Neither,' replied I; `if you mean Mr Linton
He's tolerably well, I think, though his studies occupy him rather more than they ought: 
he is continually among his books, since he has no other society.'
I should not have spoken so, 
if I had known her true condition, 
but I could not get rid of the notion that she acted a part of her disorder.
`Among his books!' she cried, confounded
`And I dying! 
I on the brink of the grave! 
My God! 
does he know how I'm altered?' continued she, 
staring at her reflection in a mirror hanging against the opposite wall
`Is that Catherine Linton! 
He imagines me in a pet--in play, perhaps
Cannot you inform him that it is frightful earnest? 
Nelly, if it be not too late, as soon as I learn how he feels, I'll choose between these two; 
either to starve at once--that would be no punishment unless he had a heart--or to recover, and leave the country
Are you speaking the truth about him now? 
Take care
Is he actually so utterly indifferent for my life?'
`Why, ma'am,' I answered, `the master has no idea of your being deranged; 
and of course he does not fear that you will let yourself die of hunger.'
`You think not? 
Cannot you tell him I will?' she returned
`Persuade him! speak of your own mind:
say you are certain I will!'
`No, you forget, Mrs Linton,' I suggested, 
`that you have eaten some food with a relish this evening, 
and tomorrow you will perceive its good effects.'
`If I were only sure it would kill him,' she interrupted, 
`I'd kill myself directly! 
These three awful nights, 
I've never closed my lids--and oh, I've been tormented! 
I've been haunted, Nelly! 
But I begin to fancy you don't like me
How strange! 
I thought, though everybody hated and despised each other, they could not avoid loving me
And they have all turned to enemies in a few hours: 
they have, I'm positive; the people here
How dreary to meet death, surrounded by their cold faces! 
Isabella terrified and repelled, afraid to enter the room, 
it would be so dreadful to watch Catherine go
And Edgar standing solemnly by to see it over; 
then offering prayers of thanks to God for restoring peace to his house, and going back to his books! 
What in the name of all that feels has he to do with books, when I am dying?'
She could not bear the notion which I had put into her head of Mr Linton's philosophical resignation
Tossing about, she increased her feverish bewilderment to madness, and tore the pillow with her teeth; 
then raising herself up all burning, desired that I would open the window
We were in the middle of winter, the wind blew strong from the north-east, and I objected
Both the expressions flitting over her face, 
and the changes of her moods, began to alarm me terribly; 
and brought to my recollection her former illness, 
and the doctor's injunction that she should not be crossed
A minute previously she was violent; 
now, supported on one arm, and not noticing my refusal to obey her, 
she seemed to find childish diversion in pulling the feathers from the rents she had just made, 
and ranging them on the sheet according to their different species: her mind had strayed to other associations.
`That's a turkey's,' she murmured to herself;
 `and this is a wild duck's; and this is a pigeon's.Ah, they put pigeons' feathers in the pillows--
 no wonder I couldn't die! 
 Let me take care to throw it on the floor when I lie down
And here is a moor-cock's; and this--
I should know it among a thousand--it's a lapwing's
Bonny bird; wheeling over our heads in the middle of the moor
It wanted to get to its nest, 
for the clouds had touched the swells, and it felt rain coming
This feather was picked up from the heath, 
the bird was not shot: 
we saw its nest in the winter, full of little skeletons
Heathcliff set a trap over it, 
and the old ones dare not come
I made him promise he'd never shoot a lapwing after that, and he didn't
Yes, here are more! 
Did he shoot my lapwings, Nelly? 
Are they red, any of them! Let me look.'
`Give over with that baby-work!' I interrupted, dragging the pillow away, 
and turning the holes towards the mattress, 
for she was removing its contents by handfuls
`Lie down and shut your eyes: 
you're wandering
There's a mess!
The down is flying about like snow.'
I went here and there collecting it.
`I see in you, Nelly,' she continued dreamily, `an aged woman: 
you have grey hair and bent shoulders
This bed is the fairy cave under Peniston Crag, 
and you are gathering elf-bolts to hurt our heifers; 
pretending, while I am near, that they are only locks of wool
That's what you'll come to fifty years hence: 
I know you are not so now
I'm not wandering: 
you're mistaken, or else I should believe you really were that withered hag, 
and I should think I was under Peniston Crag; 
and I'm conscious it's night, and there are two candles on the table making the black press shine like jet.'
`The black press? where is that?' I asked
`You are talking in your sleep!'
`It's against the wall, as it always is,' she replied
`It does appear odd--I see a face in it!'
`There's no press in the room, and never was,' said I, resuming my seat, 
and looping up the curtain that I might watch her.
`Don't you see that face?' she inquired, gazing earnestly at the mirror.
And say what I could, 
I was incapable of making her comprehend it to be her own; 
so I rose and covered it with a shawl.
`It's behind there still!' 
she pursued anxiously
`And it stirred
Who is it? 
I hope it will not come out when you are gone! 
Oh! Nelly, the room is haunted! I'm afraid of being alone!'
I took her hand in mine, and bid her be composed: 
for a succession of shudders convulsed her frame, and she would keep straining her gaze towards the glass.
`There's nobody here!' I insisted
`It was yourself, Mrs Linton: 
you knew it a while since.'
`Myself!' she gasped, `and the clock is striking twelve! It's true, then! that's dreadful!'
Her fingers clutched the clothes, and gathered them over her eyes
I attempted to steal to the door with an intention of calling her husband; 
but I was summoned back by a piercing shriek--the shawl had dropped from the frame.
`Why, what is the matter?' cried I
`Who is coward now? 
Wake up! That is the glass--the mirror, Mrs Linton; 
and you see yourself in it, and there am I too, by your side.'
Trembling and bewildered, 
she held me fast, but the horror gradually passed from her countenance; 
its paleness gave place to a glow of shame.
`Oh, dear! I thought I was at home,' she sighed
`I thought I was lying in my chamber at Wuthering Heights
Because I'm weak, my brain got confused, and I screamed unconsciously
Don t say anything; 
but stay with me
I dread sleeping: 
my dreams appal me.'
`A sound sleep would do you good, ma'am,' I answered; `and I hope this suffering will prevent your trying starving again.'
`Oh, if I were but in my own bed in the old house!' 
she went on bitterly, wringing her hands, `And that wind sounding in the firs by the lattice
Do let me feel it--it comes straight down the moor--do let me have one breath!'
To pacify her, I held the casement ajar a few seconds
A cold blast rushed through; 
I closed it, and returned to my post
She lay still now, her face bathed in tears
Exhaustion of body had entirely subdued her spirit: 
our fiery Catherine was no better than a wailing child.
`How long is it since I shut myself in here?' 
she asked, suddenly reviving.
`It was Monday evening,' I replied, 
`and this is Thursday night, or rather Friday morning, at present.
`What! of the same week?' she exclaimed
`Only that brief time?'
`Long enough to live on nothing but cold water and ill-temper, observed I.
`Well, it seems a weary number of hours,' she muttered doubtfully: 
`it must be more
I remember being in the parlour after they had quarrelled, 
and Edgar being cruelly provoking, and me running into this room desperate
As soon as ever I had barred the door, utter blackness overwhelmed me, 
and I fell on the floor
I couldn't explain to Edgar how certain I felt of having a fit, 
or going raging mad, if he persisted in teasing me! 
I had no command of tongue, or brain, and he did not guess my agony, perhaps: 
it barely left me sense to try to escape from him and his voice
Before I recovered sufficiently to see and hear, it began to be dawn, and, Nelly, 
I'll tell you what I thought, 
and what has kept recurring and recurring till I feared for my reason
I thought as I lay there, 
with my head against that table leg, and my eyes dimly discerning the grey square of the window, 
that I was enclosed in the oak-panelled bed at home; 
and my heart ached with some great grief which, just waking, I could not recollect
I pondered, and worried myself to discover what it could be, and, most strangely, 
the whole last seven years of my life grew a blank! 
I did not recall that they had been at all
I was a child; 
my father was just buried, 
and my misery arose from the separation that Hindley had ordered between me and Heathcliff
I was laid alone, for the first time; 
and, rousing from a dismal doze after a night of weeping, I lifted my hand to push the panels aside: 
it struck the table top! 
I swept it along the carpet, and then memory burst in: 
my late anguish was swallowed in a paroxysm of despair
I cannot say why I felt so wildly wretched: 
it must have been temporary derangement, for there is scarcely cause
But, supposing at twelve years old I had been wrenched from the Heights, 
and every early association, and my all in all, as Heathcliff was at that time, 
and been converted at a stroke into Mrs Linton, the lady of Thrushcross Grange, and the wife of a stranger: 
an exile, and outcast, thenceforth, from what had been my world
You may fancy a glimpse of the abyss where I grovelled! 
Shake your head as you will, Nelly, you have helped to unsettle me! 
You should have spoken to Edgar, indeed you should, and compelled him to leave me quiet! 
Oh, I'm burning! I wish I were out of doors! 
I wish I were a girl again, half savage and hardy, and free; 
and laughing at injuries, not maddening under them! 
Why am I so changed? 
why does my blood rush into a hell of tumult at a few words? 
I'm sure I should be myself were I once among the heather on those hills
Open the window again wide: 
fasten it open! Quick, why don't you move?'
`Because I won't give you your death of cold,' I answered.
`You won't give me a chance of life, you mean,' she said sullenly
`However, I'm not helpless, yet: 
I'll open it myself.'
And sliding from the bed before I could hinder her, 
she crossed the room, walking very uncertainly, threw it back, 
and bent out, careless of the frosty air that cut about her shoulders as keen as a knife
I entreated, and finally attempted to force her to retire
But I soon found her delirious strength much surpassed mine 
There was no moon, and everything beneath lay in misty darkness: 
not a light gleamed from any house, far or near--
all had been extinguished long ago; 
and those at Wuthering Heights were never visible--still she asserted she caught their shining.
`Look!' she cried eagerly, `that's my room with the candle in it, and the trees swaying before it: 
and the other candle is in Joseph's garret
Joseph sits up late, doesn't he? 
He's waiting till I come home that he may lock the gate
Well, he'll wait a while yet
It's a rough journey, and a sad heart to travel it; 
and we must pass by Gimmerton Kirk, to go that journey! 
We've braved its ghosts often together, 
and dared each other to stand among the graves and ask them to come
But, Heathcliff, if I dare you now, 
will you venture? If you do, I'll keep you
I'll not lie there by myself: 
they may bury me twelve feet deep, and throw the church down over me, 
but I won't rest till you are with me
I never will!'
She paused, and resumed with a strange smile
`He's considering--he'd rather I'd come to him! 
Find a way, then! not through that kirkyard
You are slow! 
Be content, you always followed me!'
Perceiving it vain to argue against her insanity, 
I was planning how I could reach something to wrap about her, 
without quitting my hold of herself, when, to my consternation, 
I heard the rattle of the door handle, and Mr Linton entered
He had only then come from the library; 
and, in passing through the lobby, had noticed our talking and been attracted by curiosity, or fear, to examine what it signified, at that late hour.
`Oh, sir!' I cried, checking the exclamation risen to his lips at the sight which met him, 
and the bleak atmosphere of the chamber
`My poor mistress is ill, and she quite masters me: 
I cannot manage her at all; 
pray, come and persuade her to go to bed
Forget your anger, for she's hard to guide any way but her own.'
`Catherine ill?' he said, hastening to us
`Shut the window, Ellen! Catherine! why--
He was silent
The haggardness of Mrs Linton's appearance smote him speechless, 
and he could only glance from her to me in horrified astonishment.
`She's been fretting here,' I continued, 
`and eating scarcely anything, and never complaining; 
she would admit none of us till this evening, 
and so we couldn't inform you of her state as we were not aware of it ourselves; 
but it is nothing.'
I felt I uttered my explanations awkwardly; 
the master frowned
`It is nothing, is it, Ellen Dean?' he said sternly
`You shall account more clearly for keeping me ignorant of this!' 
And he took his wife in his arms, and looked at her with anguish.
At first she gave him no glance of recognition; 
he was invisible to her abstracted gaze
The delirium was not fixed, however; 
having weaned her eyes from contemplating the outer darkness, 
by degrees she centred her attention on him, and discovered who it was that held her.
`Ah! you are come, are you, Edgar Linton?' she said, with angry animation
`You are one of those things that are ever found when least wanted, 
and when you are wanted, never! 
I suppose we shall have plenty of lamentations now--
I see we shall--
but they can't keep me from my narrow home out yonder: 
my resting-place, where I'm bound before spring is over! 
There it is: not among the Lintons, mind, under the chapel roof, 
but in the open air, with a headstone; 
and you may please yourself, whether you go to them or come to me!'
`Catherine, what have you done?' commenced the master
`Am I nothing to you any more? 
Do you love that wretch Heath--'
`Hush!' cried Mrs Linton
`Hush, this moment! 
You mention that name and I end the matter instantly, 
by a spring from the window! 
What you touch at present you may have; 
but my soul will be on that hill top before you lay hands on me again
I don't want you, Edgar: 
I'm past wanting you
Return to your books
I'm glad you possess a consolation, 
for all you had in me is gone.'
`Her mind wanders, sir,' I interposed
`She has been talking nonsense the whole evening; 
but let her have quiet, and proper attendance, and she'll rally
Hereafter, we must be cautious how we vex her.'
`I desire no further advice from you,' answered Mr Linton
`You know your mistress's nature, and you encouraged me to harass her
And not to give me one hint of how she has been these three days! 
It was heartless! Months of sickness could not cause such a change!'
I began to defend myself, 
thinking it too bad to be blamed for another's wicked waywardness
`I knew Mrs Linton's nature to be headstrong and domineering,' cried I; 
`but I didn't know that you wished to foster her fierce temper! 
I didn't know that, to humour her, 
I should wink at Mr Heathcliff
I performed the duty of a faithful servant in telling you, 
and I have got a faithful servant's wages!
Well, it will teach me to be careful next time
Next time you may gather intelligence for yourself!'
`The next time you bring a tale to me, 
you shall quit my service, Ellen Dean,' he replied.
`You'd rather hear nothing about it, I suppose, then, Mr Linton?' said I
`Heathcliff has your permission to come a courting to miss, 
and to drop in at every opportunity your absence offers, 
on purpose to poison the mistress against you?'
Confused as Catherine was, her wits were alert at applying our conversation.
`Ah! Nelly has played traitor,' she exclaimed passionately
`Nelly is my hidden enemy
You witch! So you do seek elf-bolts to hurt us! 
Let me go, I'll make her rue! 
I'll make her howl a recantation!'
A maniac's fury kindled under her brows; 
she struggled desperately to disengage herself from Linton's arms
I felt no inclination to tarry the event; 
and, resolving to seek medical aid on my own responsibility, I quitted the chamber.
In passing the garden to reach the road, at a place where a bridle hook is driven into the wall, 
I saw something white moved irregularly, evidently by another agent than the wind
Notwithstanding my hurry, 
I stayed to examine it, 
lest ever after I should have the conviction impressed on my imagination that it was a creature of the other world
My surprise and perplexity were great to discover, 
by touch more than vision, 
Miss Isabella's springer, Fanny, suspended by a handkerchief, 
and nearly at its last gasp
I quickly released the animal, 
and lifted it into the garden
I had seen it follow its mistress upstairs when she went to bed; 
and wondered much how it could have got out there, 
and what mischievous person had treated it so
While untying the knot round the hook, 
it seemed to me that I repeatedly caught the beat of horses' feet galloping at some distance; 
but there were such a number of things to occupy my reflections that I hardly gave the circumstance a thought: 
though it was a strange sound, in that place, at two o'clock in the morning.
Mr Kenneth was fortunately just issuing from his house to see a patient in the village as I came up the street; 
and my account of Catherine Linton's malady induced him to accompany me back immediately
He was a plain rough man; 
and he made no scruple to speak his doubts of her surviving this second attack; 
unless she were more submissive to his directions than she had shown herself before.
`Nelly Dean,' said he, `I can't help fancying there's an extra cause for this
What has there been to do at the Grange? 
We've odd reports up here
A stout, hearty lass like Catherine, does not fall ill for a trifle; 
and that sort of people should not either
It's hard work bringing them through fevers, and such things
How did it begin?'
`The master will inform you,' I answered; 
`but you are acquainted with the Earnshaws' violent dispositions, and Mrs Linton caps them all
I may say this:
it commenced in a quarrel
She was struck during a tempest of passion with a kind of fit
That's her account, at least; 
for she flew off in the height of it, and locked herself up
Afterwards, she refused to eat, 
and now she alternately raves and remains in a half-dream; 
knowing those about her, 
by having her mind filled with all sorts of strange ideas and illusions.'
`Mr Linton will be sorry?' observed Kenneth, interrogatively.
`Sorry? he'll break his heart should anything happen!' I replied
`Don't alarm him more than necessary.
`Well, I told him to beware,' said my companion; 
`and he must bide the consequences of neglecting my warning! 
Hasn't he been thick with Mr Heathcliff, lately?'
`Heathcliff frequently visits at the Grange,' answered I, 
`though more on the strength of the mistress having known him when a boy, 
than because the master likes his company
At present, he's discharged from the trouble of calling; 
owing to some presumptuous aspirations after Miss Linton which he manifested
I hardly think he'll be taken in again.'
`And does Miss Linton turn a cold shoulder on him?' 
was the doctor's next question.
`I'm not in her confidence,' returned I, reluctant to continue the subject.
`No, she's a sly one,' he remarked, shaking his head
`She keeps her own counsel! 
But she's a real little fool
I have it from good authority, that, 
last night she and Heathcliff were walking in the plantation at the back of your house, above two hours; 
and he pressed her not to go in again, 
but just mount his horse and away with him! 
My informant said she could only put him off by pledging her word of honour to be prepared on their first meeting after that: 
when it was to be, he didn't hear; but you urge Mr Linton to look sharp!'
This news filled me with fresh fears; 
I outstripped Kenneth, and ran most of the way back
The little dog was yelping in the garden yet
I spared a minute to open the gate for it, 
but instead of going to the house door, 
it coursed up and down snuffing the grass, 
and would have escaped to the road, had I not seized and conveyed it in with me
On ascending to Isabella's room, 
my suspicions were confirmed: it was empty
Had I been a few hours sooner, Mrs Linton's illness might have arrested her rash step
But what could be done now? 
There was a bare possibility of overtaking them if pursued instantly
I could not pursue them, however; 
and I dare not rouse the family, 
and fill the place with confusion; 
still less unfold the business to my master, a
bsorbed as he was in his present calamity, 
and having no heart to spare for a second grief! 
I saw nothing for it but to hold my tongue, and suffer matters to take their course; 
and Kenneth being arrived, 
I went with a badly composed countenance to announce him
Catherine lay in a troubled sleep: 
her husband had succeeded in soothing the access of frenzy: 
he now hung over her pillow, watching every shade, and every change of her painfully expressive features.
The doctor, on examining the case for himself, 
spoke hopefully to him of its having a favourable termination,
if we could only preserve around her perfect and constant tranquillity
To me, he signified the threatening danger was not so much death, 
as permanent alienation of intellect.
I did not close my eyes that night, nor did Mr Linton: 
indeed, we never went to bed; and the servants were all up long before the usual hour,
moving through the house with stealthy tread, 
and exchanging whispers as they encountered each other in their vocations
Everyone was active, but Miss Isabella; 
and they began to remark how sound she slept: 
her brother, too, asked if she had risen, 
and seemed impatient for her presence, 
and hurt that she showed so little anxiety for her sister-in-law
I trembled lest he should send me to call her; 
but I was spared the pain of being the first proclaimant of her flight
One of the maids, a thoughtless girl, 
who had been on an early errand to Gimmerton, came panting upstairs, openmouthed, and dashed into the chamber, crying:
`Oh, dear, dear! What mun we have next? 
Master, master, our young lady--
`Hold your noise!' cried I hastily, enraged at her clamorous manner.
`Speak lower, Mary--What is the matter?' said Mr Linton
`What ails your young lady?'
`She's gone, she's gone! 
Yon' Heathcliff's run off wi' her!' gasped the girl.
`That is not true!' exclaimed Linton, rising in agitation
`It cannot be: how has the idea entered your head? 
Ellen Dean, go and seek her
It is incredible: it cannot be.'
As he spoke he took the servant to the door, 
and then repeated his demand to know her reasons for such an assertion.
`Why, I met on the road a lad that fetches milk here,' she stammered, 
`and he asked whether we weren't in trouble at the Grange
I thought he meant for missis's sickness, so I answered, yes
Then says he, "They's somebody gone after `em, I guess?" I stared
He saw I knew nought about it, 
and he told how a gentleman and lady had stopped to have a horse's shoe fastened at a blacksmith's shop, t
wo miles out of Gimmerton, not very long after midnight! 
and how the blacksmith's lass had got up to spy who they were: 
she knew them both directly
And she noticed the man--Heathcliff it was, 
she felt certain: 
nobody could mistake him, 
besides--put a sovereign in her father's hand for payment
The lady had a cloak about her face; 
but having desired a sup of water, 
while she drank, it fell back, and she saw her very plain
Heathcliff held both bridles as they rode on, 
and they set their faces from the village, 
and went as fast as the rough roads would let them
The lass said nothing to her father, 
but she told it all over Gimmerton this morning.'
I ran and peeped, for form's sake, into Isabella's room; 
confirming, when I returned, the servant's statement
Mr Linton had resumed his seat by the bed; 
on my re-entrance, he raised his eyes, read the meaning of my blank aspect, 
and dropped them without giving an order, or uttering a word.
`Are we to try any measures for overtaking and bringing her back?' I inquired
`How should we do?'
`She went of her own accord,' answered the master; 
`she had a right to go if she pleased
Trouble me no more about her
Hereafter she is only my sister in name: 
not because I disown her, but because she has disowned me.'
And that was all he said on the subject: 
he did not make a single inquiry further, or mention her in any way, 
except directing me to send what property she had in the house to her fresh home, 
wherever it was, when I knew it.
For two months the fugitives remained absent; 
in those two months, Mrs Linton encountered and conquered the worst shock of what was denominated a brain fever
No mother could have nursed an only child more devotedly than Edgar tended her
Day and night he was watching, and patiently enduring all the annoyances that irritable nerves and a shaken reason could inflict; 
and, though Kenneth remarked that what he saved from the grave would only recompense his care by forming the source of constant future anxiety--
in fact, that his health and strength were being sacrificed to preserve a mere ruin of humanity--
he knew no limits in gratitude and joy when Catherine's life was declared out of danger; 
and hour after hour he would sit beside her, 
tracing the gradual return to bodily health, 
and flattering his too sanguine hopes with the illusion that her mind would settle back to its right balance also, 
and she would soon be entirely her former self.
The first time she left her chamber was at the commencement of the following March
Mr Linton had put on her pillow, in the morning, a handful of golden crocuses; 
her eye, long stranger to any gleam of pleasure, 
caught them in waking, and shone delighted as she gathered them eagerly together.
`These are the earliest flowers at the Heights,' she exclaimed
`They remind me of soft thaw winds, and warm sunshine, and nearly melted snow
Edgar, is there not a south wind, and is not the snow almost gone?'
`The snow is quite gone down here, darling,' replied her husband;
 `and I only see two white spots on the whole range of moors: 
the sky is blue, and the larks are singing, and the becks and brooks are all brim full
Catherine, last spring at this time, 
I was longing to have you under this roof, 
now, I wish you were a mile or two up those hills: 
the air blows so sweetly, I feel that it would cure you.
`I shall never be there but once more,' said the invalid;
 `and then you'll leave me, and I shall remain for ever
Next spring you'll long again to have me under this roof, and you'll look back and think you were happy today.
Linton lavished on her the kindest caresses, and tried to cheer her by the fondest words; 
but, vaguely regarding the flowers, 
she let the tears collect on her lashes and stream down her cheeks unheeding
We knew she was really better, 
and, therefore, 
decided that long confinement to a single place produced much of this despondency, 
and it might be partially removed by a change of scene
The master told me to light a fire in the many-weeks-deserted parlour, 
and to set an easy chair in the sunshine by the window; 
and then he brought her down, 
and she sat a long while enjoying the genial heat, 
and, as we expected, revived by the objects round her: 
which, though familiar, were free from the dreary associations investing her hated sick chamber
By evening, she seemed greatly exhausted; yet no arguments could persuade her to return to that apartment, 
and I had to arrange the parlour sofa for her bed, till another room could be prepared
To obviate the fatigue of mounting and descending the stairs, we fitted up this, where you lie at present: 
on the same floor with the parlour; 
and she was soon strong enough to move from one to the other, leaning on Edgar's arm
Ah, I thought myself she might recover, so waited on as she was
And there was double cause to desire it, for on her existence depended that of another: 
we cherished the hope that in a little while, 
Mr Linton's heart would be gladdened, 
and his lands secured from a stranger's gripe, by the birth of an heir.
I should mention that Isabella sent to her brother, 
some six weeks from her departure, a short note, announcing her marriage with Heathcliff
It appeared dry and cold; 
but at the bottom was dotted in with pencil an obscure apology, 
and an entreaty for kind remembrance and reconciliation, 
if her proceeding had offended him: 
asserting that she could not help it then, and being done, she had now no power to repeal it
Linton did not reply to this, I believe; 
and, in a fortnight more, I got a long letter which I considered odd, coming from the pen of a bride just out of the honeymoon
I'll read it: 
for I keep it yet
Any relic of the dead is precious, if they were valued living.
I came last night to Wuthering Heights, and heard, for the first time, 
that Catherine has been, and is yet, very ill
I must not write to her, I suppose, 
and my brother is either too angry or too distressed to answer what I sent him
Still, I must write to somebody, 
and the only choice left me is you.
Inform Edgar that I'd give the world to see his face again--
that my heart returned to Thrushcross Grange in twenty-four hours after I left it, 
and is there at this moment, full of warm feelings for him, and Catherine! 
I can't follow it, though-- 
they need not expect me, 
and they may draw what conclusions they please; 
taking care, however, to lay nothing at the door of my weak will or deficient affection.
The remainder of the letter is for yourself alone
I want to ask you two questions: 
the first is--How did you contrive to preserve the common sympathies of human nature when you resided here? 
I cannot recognize any sentiment which those around share with me.
The second question, I have great interest in; 
it is this--Is Mr Heathcliff a man? 
If so, is he mad? 
And if not, is he a devil? 
I shan't tell my reasons for making this inquiry; 
but, I beseech you to explain, if you can, what I have married: 
that is, when you call to see me; and you must call, Ellen, very soon
Don't write, but come, and bring me something from Edgar.
Now, you shall hear how I have been received in my new home, 
as I am led to imagine the Heights will be
It is to amuse myself that I dwell on such subjects as the lack of external comforts: 
they never occupy my thoughts, except at the moment when I miss them
I should laugh and dance for joy, if I found their absence was the total of my miseries, and the rest was an unnatural dream!
The sun set behind the Grange, as we turned on to the moors; 
by that, I judged it to be six o'clock; 
and my companion halted half an hour, to inspect the park, and the gardens, and, probably, the place itself, 
as well as he could; so it was dark when we dismounted in the paved yard of the farmhouse, 
and your old fellow-servant, Joseph, issued out to receive us by the light of a dip candle
He did it with a courtesy that redounded to his credit
His first act was to elevate his torch to a level with my face, squint malignantly, project his under lip, and turn away
Then he took the two horses, and led them into the stables; 
reappearing for the purpose of locking the outer gate, as if we lived in an ancient castle.
Heathcliff stayed to speak to him, and I entered the kitchen--a dingy, untidy hole; 
I dare say you would not know it, it is so changed since it was in your charge
By the fire stood a ruffianly child, strong in limb and dirty in garb, with a look of Catherine in his eyes and about his mouth.
`This is Edgar's legal nephew,' I reflected--`mine in a manner; 
I must shake hands, and--yes--I must kiss him
It is right to establish a good understanding at the beginning.'
I approached, and, attempting to take his chubby fist, 
said: `How do you do, my dear?' 
He replied in a jargon I did not comprehend
`Shall you and I be friends, Hareton?' 
was my next essay at conversation.
An oath, and a threat to set Throttler on me if I did not `frame off', rewarded my perseverance.
`Hey, Throttler, lad!' 
whispered the little wretch, rousing a half-bred bulldog from its lair in a corner
Now, wilt tuh be ganging?' 
he asked authoritatively.
Love for my life urged a compliance; 
I stepped over the threshold to wait till the others should enter
Mr Heathcliff was nowhere visible; 
and Joseph, whom I followed to the stables, and requested to accompany me in, 
after staring and muttering to himself, screwed up his nose, and replied:
`Mim! mim! mim! 
Did iver Christian body hear aught like it? 
Minching Un' munching! 
How can Aw tell whet ye say?'
`I say, I wish you to come with me into the house!' 
I cried, thinking him deaf, yet highly disgusted at his rudeness.
`Nor nuh me! I getten summat else to do,' he answered, and continued his work; 
moving his lantern jaws meanwhile, and surveying my dress and countenance with sovereign contempt.
I walked round the yard, and through a wicket, to another door, 
at which I took the liberty of knocking, in hopes some more civil servant might show himself
After a short suspense, 
it was opened by a tall, gaunt man, without neckerchief, 
and otherwise extremely slovenly; 
his features were lost in masses of shaggy hair that hung on his shoulders; 
and his eyes, too, were like a ghostly Catherine's with all their beauty annihilated.
`What's your business here?' he demanded grimly
`Who are you?'
`My name was Isabella Linton,' I replied
`You've seen me before, sir
I'm lately married to Mr Heathcliff, and he has brought me here--
I suppose by your permission.'
`Is he come back, then?' asked the hermit, glaring like a hungry wolf.
`Yes--we came just now,' I said;
 `but he left me by the kitchen door; 
 and when I would have gone in, your little boy played sentinel over the place, and frightened me off by the help of a bulldog.'
`It's well the hellish villain has kept his word!' growled my future host, 
searching the darkness beyond me in expectation of discovering Heathcliff; 
and then he indulged in a soliloquy of execrations, and threats of what he would have done had the `fiend' deceived him.
I repented having tried this second entrance, 
and was almost inclined to slip away before he finished cursing, 
but ere I could execute that intention, he ordered me in, and shut and refastened the door
There was a great fire, and that was all the light in the huge apartment, whose floor had grown a uniform grey; 
and the once brilliant pewter dishes, which used to attract my gaze when I was a girl, partook of a similar obscurity, created by tarnish and dust
I inquired whether I might call the maid, and be conducted to a bedroom? 
Mr Earnshaw vouchsafed no answer
He walked up and down, with his hands in his pockets, apparently quite forgetting my presence; 
and his abstraction was evidently so deep, and his whole aspect so misanthropical, 
that I shrank from disturbing him again.
You'll not be surprised, Ellen, at my feeling particularly cheerless, seated in worse than solitude on that inhospitable hearth, 
and remembering that four miles distant lay my delightful home, containing the only people I loved on earth; 
and there might as well be the Atlantic to part us, instead of those four miles: 
I could not overpass them! 
I questioned with myself--where must I turn for comfort? 
and--mind you don't tell Edgar, or Catherine--above every sorrow beside, this rose pre-eminent: 
despair at finding nobody who could or would be my ally against Heathcliff! 
I had sought shelter at Wuthering Heights, almost gladly, 
because I was secured by that arrangement from living alone with him; 
but he knew the people we were coming amongst, and he did not fear their intermeddling.
I sat and thought a doleful time: 
the clock struck eight, and nine, 
and still my companion paced to and fro, his head bent on his breast, 
and perfectly silent, 
unless a groan or a bitter ejaculation forced itself out at intervals
I listened to detect a woman's voice in the house, 
and filled the interim with wild regrets and dismal anticipations, 
which, at last, spoke audibly in irrepressible sighing and weeping
I was not aware how openly I grieved, till Earnshaw halted opposite, 
in his measured walk, and gave me a stare of newly-awakened surprise
Taking advantage of his recovered attention, I exclaimed:
`I'm tired with my journey, and I want to go to bed! 
Where is the maidservant? Direct me to her, as she won't come to me!'
`We have none,' he answered; `you must wait on yourself!'
`Where must I sleep, then?' I sobbed: 
I was beyond regarding self-respect, weighed down by fatigue and wretchedness.
`Joseph will show you Heathcliff's chamber,' said he;
 `open that door--he's in there.'
I was going to obey, 
but he suddenly arrested me, and added in the strangest tone:
`Be so good as to turn your lock, and draw your bolt--don't omit it!'
`Well!' I said
`But why, Mr Earnshaw?' 
I did not relish the notion of deliberately fastening myself in with Heathcliff.
`Look here!' he replied, pulling from his waistcoat a curiously constructed pistol, having a double-edged spring knife attached to the barrel
`That's a great tempter to a desperate man, is it not? 
I cannot resist going up with this every night, and trying his door
If once I find it open he's done for! 
I do it invariably, even though the minute before I have been recalling a hundred reasons that should make me refrain: 
it is some devil that urges me to thwart my own schemes by killing him
You fight against that devil for love as long as you may; 
when the times comes, not all the angels in heaven shall save him!'
I surveyed the weapon inquisitively
A hideous notion struck me: how powerful I should be possessing such an instrument! 
I took it from his hand, and touched the blade
He looked astonished at the expression my face assumed during a brief second: 
it was not horror, it was covetousness
He snatched the pistol back, jealously; 
shut the knife, and returned it to its concealment.
`I don't care if you tell him,' said he
`Put him on his guard, and watch for him
You know the terms we are on, I see: 
his danger does not shock you.'
`What has Heathcliff done to you?' I asked
`In what has he wronged you, to warrant this appalling hatred? 
Wouldn't it be wiser to bid him quit the house?'
`No!' thundered Earnshaw, `should he offer to leave me, he's a dead man: 
persuade him to attempt it, and you are a murderess! 
Am I to lose all, without a chance of retrieval? 
Is Hareton to be a beggar? Oh, damnation! 
I will have it back; 
and I'll have his gold too; 
and then his blood; 
and hell shall have his soul! 
It will be ten times blacker with that guest than ever it was before!'
You've acquainted me, Ellen, with your old master's habits
He is clearly on the verge of madness: 
he was so last night at least
I shuddered to be near him, 
and thought on the servant's ill-bred moroseness as comparatively agreeable
He now recommenced his moody walk, and I raised the latch, and escaped into the kitchen
Joseph was bending over the fire, peering into a large pan that swung above it; 
and a wooden bowl of oatmeal stood on the settle close by
The contents of the pan began to boil, and he turned to plunge his hand into the bowl; 
I conjectured that this preparation was probably for our supper, and, being hungry, 
I resolved it should be eatable; 
so, crying out sharply, `I'll make the porridge!' 
I removed the vessel out of his reach, and proceeded to take off my hat and riding habit
`Mr Earnshaw', I continued, `directs me to wait on myself: I will
I'm not going to act the lady among you, for fear I should starve.'
`Gooid Lord!' he muttered, sitting down, 
and stroking his ribbed stockings from the knee to the ankle
`If they's tuh be fresh ortherings--just when Aw gettin used tuh two maisters, 
if Aw mun hev a mistress set o'er my heead, it's loike time tuh be flitting
Aw niver did think tuh say t' day ut Aw mud lave th' owld place--but Aw daht it's nigh at hend!'
This lamentation drew no notice from me: 
I went briskly to work, sighing to remember a period when it would have been all merry fun; 
but compelled speedily to drive off the remembrance
It racked me to recall past happiness, and the greater peril there was of conjuring up its apparition, 
the quicker the thible ran round, and the faster the handfuls of meal fell into the water
Joseph beheld my style of cookery with growing indignation.
`Thear!' he ejaculated, `Hareton, thah willut sup thy porridge tuh neight; 
they'll be nowt bud lumps as big as maw nave
Thear, agean! 
Aw'd fling in bowl un all, if Aw wer yah! There, pale t' guilp off, un' then yah'll hae done wi't
It's a marcy t' bothom isn't deaved aht!'
It was rather a rough mess, I own, when poured into the basins; 
four had been provided, and a gallon pitcher of new milk was brought from the dairy, 
which Hareton seized and commenced drinking and spilling from the expansive lip
I expostulated, and desired that he should have his in a mug; 
affirming that I could not taste the liquid treated so dirtily
The old cynic chose to be vastly offended at this nicety; 
assuring me, repeatedly, that `the barn was every bit as good' as I, `and every bit as wollsome', and wondering how I could fashion to be so conceited
Meanwhile, the infant ruffian continued sucking; and glowered at me defyingly, as he slavered into the jug.
`I shall have my supper in another room,' I said
`Have you no place you call a parlour?'
`Parlour!' he echoed sneeringly, `parlour! Nay, we've noa parlours
If yah dunnut loike wer company, there's maister's; un' if yah dunnut loike maister, there's us.
`Then I shall go upstairs!' I answered; `show me a chamber.' 
I put my basin on a tray, and went myself to fetch some more milk
With great grumblings, the fellow rose, and preceded me in my ascent: 
we mounted to the garrets; he opening a door, now and then, to look into the apartments we passed.
`Here's a rahm,' he said, at last, flinging back a cranky board on hinges
`It's weel eneugh tuh ate a few porridge in
They's a pack o' corn i' t' corner, thear, meeterly clane; 
if yah're feared uh muckying yer grand silk cloes, spread yer hankerchir o' t' top on't.'
The `rahm' was a kind of lumber-hole smelling strong of malt and grain;
various sacks of which articles were piled around, leaving a wide, bare space in the middle.
`Why, man!' I exclaimed, facing him angrily, `this is not a place to sleep in
I wish to see my bedroom.
`Bed-rume!' he repeated, in a tone of mockery
`Yah's see all t' bed-rumes thear is--yon's mine.'
He pointed into the second garret, 
only differing from the first in being more naked about the walls, 
and having a large, low, curtainless bed, with an indigo-coloured quilt at one end.
`What do I want with yours?' I retorted
`I suppose Mr Heathcliff does not lodge at the top of the house, does he?'
`Oh! it's Maister Hathecliff's yah're wenting!' cried he, as if making a new discovery
`Couldn't ye uh said soa, at onst? 
un then, Aw mud uh telled ye, baht all this wark, ut that's just one yah cannut sea--
he alIas keeps it locked, un nob'dy iver mells on't but hisseln.'
`You've a nice house, Joseph,' I could not refrain from observing, `and pleasant inmates; 
and I think the concentrated essence of all the madness in the world took up its abode in my brain the day I linked my fate with theirs! 
However, that is not to the present purpose--there are other rooms
For heaven's sake be quick, and let me settle somewhere!'
He made no reply to this adjuration; 
only plodding doggedly down the wooden steps, 
and halting before an apartment which, from that halt and the superior quality of its furniture, 
I conjectured to be the best one
There was a carpet: 
a good one, but the pattern was obliterated by dust;
a fireplace hung with cut paper, dropping to pieces;
a handsome oak bedstead with ample crimson curtains of rather expensive material and modern make; 
but they had evidently experienced rough usage: 
the valances hung in festoons, wrenched from their rings, 
and the iron rod supporting them was bent in an arc on one side, causing the drapery to trail upon the floor
The chairs were also damaged, many of them severely; 
and deep indentations deformed the panels of the walls
I was endeavouring to gather resolution for entering and taking possession, 
when my fool of a guide announced, `This here is t' maister's.' 
My supper by this time was cold, my appetite gone, and my patience exhausted
I insisted on being provided instantly with a place of refuge, and means of repose.
`Whear the divil?' began the religious elder
`The Lord bless us! 
The Lord forgie us! 
Whear the hell wold ye gang? 
ye marred, wearisome nowt! 
Yah seen all bud Hareton's bit uf a cham'er
They's not another hoile tuh lig dahn in i' th' hahse!'
I was so vexed, I flung my tray and its contents on the ground; 
and then seated myself at the stairs-head, hid my face in my hands, and cried.
`Ech! ech!' exclaimed Joseph
`Weel done, Miss Cathy! 
weel done, Miss Cathy! 
Hahsiver, t' maister saIl just tum'le o'er them brocken pots; 
un' then we's hear summut; we's hear hah it's tuh be
Gooid-for-nowt madling! 
yah desarve pining froo this to Churstmas, flinging t' precious gifts uh God under fooit i' yer flaysome rages! 
Bud Aw'm mista'en if yah shew yer sperrit lang
Will Hathecliff bide sich bonny ways, think ye? 
Aw nobbut wish he muh cotch ye i' that plisky
Aw nobbut wish he may.'
And so he went on scolding to his den beneath, taking the candle with him; 
and I remained in the dark
The period of reflection succeeding this silly action, 
compelled me to admit the necessity of smothering my pride and choking my wrath, 
and bestirring myself to remove its effects
An unexpected aid presently appeared in the shape of Throttler, 
whom I now recognized as a son of our old Skulker: 
it had spent its whelphood at the Grange, and was given by my father to Mr Hindley
I fancy it knew me: 
it pushed its nose against mine by way of salute, and then hastened to devour the porridge; 
while I groped from step to step, collecting the shattered earthenware, 
and drying the spatters of milk from the banister with my pocket handkerchief
Our labours were scarcely over when I heard Earnshaw's tread in the passage; 
my assistant tucked in his tail, and pressed to the wall; I stole into the nearest doorway
The dog's endeavour to avoid him was unsuccessful; 
as I guessed by a scutter downstairs, and a prolonged, piteous yelping
I had better luck! he passed on, entered his chamber, and shut the door
Directly after Joseph came up with Hareton, to put him to bed
I had found shelter in Hareton's room, 
and the old man, on seeing me, said:
`They's rahm for boath ye un yer pride, now, I sud think, i' the hahse
It's empty; ye may hev it all to yerseln, un Him as allas maks a third, i' such ill company!'
Gladly did I take advantage of this intimation; 
and the minute I flung myself into a chair, by the fire, I nodded, and slept
My slumber was deep and sweet, though over far too soon
Mr Heathcliff awoke me; 
he had just come in, and demanded, in his loving manner, what I was doing there? 
I told him the cause of my staying up so late--that he had the key of our room in his pocket
The adjective our gave mortal offence
He swore it was not, nor ever should be, mine; 
and he'd--But I'll not repeat his language, nor describe his habitual conduct: 
he is ingenious and unresting in seeking to gain my abhorrence! 
I sometimes wonder at him with an intensity that deadens my fear: 
yet, I assure you, a tiger or a venomous serpent could not rouse terror in me equal to that which he wakens
He told me of Catherine's illness, and accused my brother of causing it; 
promising that I should be Edgar's proxy in suffering, till he could get hold of him.
I do hate him--I am wretched--I have been a fool! 
Beware of uttering one breath of this to anyone at the Grange
I shall expect you every day--don't disappoint me!ISABELLA.
As soon as I had perused this epistle, I went to the master, 
and informed him that his sister had arrived at the Heights, 
and sent me a letter expressing her sorrow for Mrs Linton's situation, 
and her ardent desire to see him; 
with a wish that he would transmit to her, as early as possible, some token of forgiveness by me.
`Forgiveness!' said Linton
`I have nothing to forgive her, Ellen
You may call at Wuthering Heights this afternoon, 
if you like, and say that I am not angry, 
but I'm sorry to have lost her; especially as I can never think she'll be happy
It is out of the question my going to see her, 
however: we are eternally divided; 
and should she really wish to oblige me, let her persuade the villain she has married to leave the country.'
`And you won't write her a little note, sir?' I asked imploringly.
`No,' he answered
`It is needless
My communication with Heathcliff's family shall be as sparing as his with mine
It shall not exist!'
Mr Edgar's coldness depressed me exceedingly; 
and all the way from the Grange I puzzled my brains how to put more heart into what he said, 
when I repeated it; 
and how to soften his refusal of even a few lines to console Isabella
I dare say she had been on the watch for me since morning: 
I saw her looking through the lattice, 
as I came up the garden causeway, 
and I nodded to her; 
but she drew back, as if afraid of being observed
I entered without knocking
There never was such a dreary, dismal scene as the formerly cheerful house presented! 
I must confess, that if I had been in the young lady's place, 
I would, at least, have swept the hearth, and wiped the tables with a duster
But she already partook of the pervading spirit of neglect which encompassed her
Her pretty face was wan and listless; 
her hair uncurled: 
some locks hanging lankly down, and some carelessly twisted round her head
Probably she had not touched her dress since yester evening
Hindley was not there
Mr Heathcliff sat at a table, turning over some papers in his pocket-book; 
but he rose when I appeared, asked me how I did, quite friendly, and offered me a chair
He was the only thing there that seemed decent: 
and I thought he never looked better
So much had circumstances altered their positions, 
that he would certainly have struck a stranger as a born and bred gentleman; 
and his wife as a thorough little slattern! 
She came forward eagerly to greet me; 
and held out one hand to take the expected letter
I shook my head
She wouldn't understand the hint, but followed me to a sideboard, where I went to lay my bonnet, 
and importuned me in a whisper to give her directly what I had brought
Heathcliff guessed the meaning of her manoeuvres, and said:
`If you have got anything for Isabella , 
give it to her
You needn't make a secret of it! 
we have no secrets between us.'
`Oh, I have nothing,' I replied, thinking it best to speak the truth at once
`My master bid me tell his sister that she must not expect either a letter or a visit from him at present
He sends his love, ma'am, and his wishes for your happiness, 
and his pardon for the grief you have occasioned; 
but he thinks that after this time, 
his household and the household here should drop intercommunication, 
as nothing good could come of keeping it up.'
Mrs Heathcliff's lip quivered slightly, and she returned to her seat in the window
Her husband took his stand on the hearthstone, near me, 
and began to put questions concerning Catherine
I told him as much as I thought proper of her illness, 
and he extorted from me, by cross-examination, 
most of the facts connected with its origin
I blamed her, as she deserved, for bringing it all on herself; 
and ended by hoping that he would follow Mr Linton's example and avoid future interference with his family, for good or evil.
`Mrs Linton is now just recovering,' 
I said; `she'll never be like she was, but her life is spared; 
and if you really have a regard for her, 
you'll shun crossing her way again: nay, 
you'll move out of this country entirely; 
and that you may not regret it, 
I'll inform you Catherine Linton is as different now from your old friend Catherine Earnshaw, as that young lady is different from me
Her appearance is changed greatly, her character much more so; 
and the person who is compelled, of necessity, to be her companion, 
will only sustain his affection hereafter by the remembrance of what she once was, by common humanity, and a sense of duty!'
`That is quite possible,' remarked Heathcliff, 
forcing himself to seem calm: `quite possible that your master should have nothing but common humanity and a sense of duty to fall back upon
But do you imagine that I shall leave Catherine to his duty and humanity? 
and can you compare my feelings respecting Catherine to his? Before you leave this house, 
I must exact a promise from you, that you'll get me an interview with her: 
consent or refuse, I will see her! 
What do you say?'
`I say, Mr Heathcliff,' I replied, `you must not: 
you never shall, through my means
Another encounter between you and the master would kill her altogether.'
`With your aid, that may be avoided,' he continued; 
`and should there be danger of such an event--
should he be the cause of adding a single trouble more to her existence--
why, I think I shall be justified in going to extremes! 
I wish you had sincerity enough to tell me whether Catherine would suffer greatly from his loss: 
the fear that she would restrains me
And there you see the distinctions between our feelings: 
had he been in my place, and I in his, though I hated him with a hatred that turned my life to gall, 
I never would have raised a hand against him
You may look incredulous, if you please! 
I never would have banished him from her society as long as she desired his
The moment her regard ceased, I would have torn his heart out, and drunk his blood! 
But, till then--
if you don't believe me, you don't know me--
till then, I would have died by inches before I touched a single hair of his head!'
`And yet,' I interrupted, `you have no scruples in completely ruining all hopes of her perfect restoration, 
by thrusting yourself into her remembrance now, 
when she has nearly forgotten you, and involving her in a new tumult of discord and distress.'
`You suppose she has nearly forgotten me?' he said
`Oh, Nelly! you know she has not! 
You know as well as I do, that for every thought she spends on Linton, she spends a thousand on me! 
At a most miserable period of my life, I had a notion of the kind: 
it haunted me on my return to the neighbourhood last summer; 
but only her own assurance could make me admit the horrible idea again
And then, Linton would be nothing, nor Hindley, 
nor all the dreams that ever I dreamt
Two words would comprehend my future--death and hell: 
existence, after losing her, would be hell
Yet I was a fool to fancy for a moment that she valued Edgar Linton's attachment more than mine
If he loved with all the powers of his puny being, he couldn't love as much in eighty years as I could in a day
And Catherine has a heart as deep as I have: 
the sea could be as readily contained in that horse-trough, as her whole affection be monopolized by him! 
Tush! He is scarcely a degree dearer to her than her dog, or her horse
It is not in him to be loved like me: 
how can she love in him what he has not?'
`Catherine and Edgar are as fond of each other as any two people can be,' cried Isabella, with sudden vivacity
`No one has a right to talk in that manner, 
and I won't hear my brother depreciated in silence!'
`Your brother is wondrous fond of you too, isn't he?' 
observed Heathcliff scornfully
`He turns you adrift on the world with surprising alacrity.'
`He is not aware of what I suffer,' she replied
`I didn't tell him that.
`You have been telling him something, then: 
you have written, have you?'
`To say that I was married, I did write--you saw the note
`And nothing since?'
`My young lady is looking sadly the worse for her change of condition,' I remarked
`Somebody's love comes short in her case, obviously: whose, I may guess; 
but, perhaps, I shouldn't say.'
`I should guess it was her own,' said Heathcliff
`She degenerates into a mere slut! 
She is tired of trying to please me uncommonly early
You'd hardly credit it, 
but the very morrow of our wedding, she was weeping to go home
However, she'll suit this house so much the better for not being over nice, 
and I'll take care she does not disgrace me by rambling abroad.'
`Well, sir,' returned I, `I hope you'll consider that Mrs Heathcliff is accustomed to be looked after and waited on; 
and that she has been brought up like an only daughter, whom everyone was ready to serve
You must let her have a maid to keep things tidy about her, and you must treat her kindly
Whatever be your notion of Mr Edgar, you cannot doubt that she has a capacity for strong attachments, 
or she wouldn't have abandoned the elegances, and comforts, 
and friends of her former home, to fix contentedly, in such a wilderness as this, with you.'
`She abandoned them under a delusion,' he answered;
 `picturing in me a hero of romance, 
 and expecting unlimited indulgences from my chivalrous devotion
I can hardly regard her in the light of a rational creature, 
so obstinately has she persisted in forming a fabulous notion of my character and acting on the false impressions she cherished
But, at last, I think she begins to know me: 
I don't perceive the silly smiles and grimaces that provoked me at first; 
and the senseless incapability of discerning that I was in earnest when I gave her my opinion of her infatuation and herself
It was a marvellous effort of perspicacity to discover that I did not love her
I believed, at one time, no lessons could teach her that! And yet it is poorly learnt; 
for this morning she announced, as a piece of appalling intelligence, 
that I had actually succeeded in making her hate me! 
A positive labour of Hercules, I assure you! 
If it be achieved, I have cause to return thanks
Can I trust your assertion, Isabella? 
Are you sure you hate me? 
If I let you alone for half a day, won't you come sighing and wheedling to me again? 
I dare say she would rather I had seemed all tenderness before you: 
it wounds her vanity to have the truth exposed
But I don't care who knows that the passion was wholly on one side; 
and I never told her a lie about it
She cannot accuse me of showing a bit of deceitful softness
The first thing she saw me do, on coming out of the Grange, was to hang up her little dog; 
and when she pleaded for it, 
the first words I uttered were a wish that I had the hanging of every being belonging to her, 
except one: possibly she took that exception for herself
But no brutality disgusted her: 
I suppose she has an innate admiration of it, 
if only her precious person were secure from injury! 
Now, was it not the depth of absurdity--of genuine idiocy, for that pitiful, slavish, mean-minded brach to dream that I could love her? 
Tell your master, Nelly, that I never, in all my life, met with such an abject thing as she is
She even disgraces the name of Linton; 
and I've sometimes relented, from pure lack of invention, in my experiments on what she could endure, and still creep shamefully cringing back! But tell him, also, to set his fraternal and magisterial heart at ease: that I keep strictly within the limits of the law
I have avoided, up to this period, giving her the slightest right to claim a separation; 
and, what's more, she'd thank nobody for dividing us
If she desired to go, she might: 
the nuisance of her presence outweighs the gratification to be derived from tormenting her!'
`Mr Heathcliff,' said I, `this is the talk of a madman, and your wife, most likely, is convinced you are mad; and, for that reason, 
she has borne with you hitherto: 
but now that you say she may go, 
she'll doubtless avail herself of the permission
You are not so bewitched, ma'am, are you, as to remain with him of your own accord?'
`Take care, Ellen!' answered Isabella, her eyes sparkling irefully; 
there was no misdoubting by their expression the full success of her partner's endeavours to make himself detested
`Don't put faith in a single word he speaks
He's a lying fiend! a monster, and not a human being! 
I've been told I might leave him before; 
and I've made the attempt, but I dare not repeat it! 
Only, Ellen, promise you'll not mention a syllable of his infamous conversation to my brother or Catherine
Whatever he may pretend, he wishes to provoke Edgar to desperation:
he says he has married me on purpose to obtain power over him; 
and he shan't obtain it--I'll die first!
I just hope, I pray, that he may forget his diabolical prudence and kill me! 
The single pleasure I can imagine is to die or see him dead!'
`There--that will do for the present!' said Heathcliff
`If you are called upon in a court of law, you'll remember her language, Nelly! 
And take a good look at that countenance: 
she's near the point which would suit me
No; you're not fit to be your own guardian, Isabella, now; 
and I, being your legal protector, must detain you in my custody, 
however distasteful the obligation may be
Go upstairs; 
I have something to say to Ellen Dean in private
That's not the way: 
upstairs, I tell you!
Why, this is the road upstairs, child!'
He seized, and thrust her from the room: 
and returned muttering:
I have no pity! I have no pity! 
The more the worms writhe, 
the more I yearn to crush out their entrails! 
It is a moral teething; 
and I grind with greater energy, 
in proportion to the increase of pain.'
Do you understand what the word pity means?' 
I said, hastening to resume my bonnet
Did you ever feel a touch of it in your life?'
'Put that down!' he interrupted, perceiving my intention to depart
`You are not going yet
Come here now, Nelly: 
I must either persuade or compel you to aid me in fulfilling my determination to see Catherine, and that without delay
I swear that I meditate no harm: 
I don't desire to cause any disturbance, or to exasperate or insult Mr Linton; 
I only wish to hear from herself how she is, and why she has been ill; 
and to ask if anything that I could do would be of use to her
Last night, I was in the Grange garden six hours, and I'll return there tonight; 
and every night I'll haunt the place, and every day, till I find an opportunity of entering
If Edgar Linton meets me, I shall not hesitate to knock him down, 
and give him enough to insure his quiescence while I stay
If his servants oppose me, I shall threaten them off with these pistols
But wouldn't it be better to prevent my coming in contact with them, or their master? 
And you could do it so easily
I'd warn you when I came, and then you might let me in unobserved, 
as soon as she was alone, and watch till I departed, 
your conscience quite calm: you would be hindering mischief.'
I protested against playing that treacherous part in my employer's house: 
and, besides, I urged the cruelty and selfishness of his destroying Mrs Linton's tranquillity for his satisfaction
`The commonest occurrence startles her painfully,' I said
`She's all nerves, and she couldn't bear the surprise, I'm positive
Don't persist, sir! 
or else, I shall be obliged to inform my master of your designs; 
and he'll take measures to secure his house and its inmates from any such unwarrantable intrusions!'
`In that case, I'll take measures to secure you, woman!' exclaimed Heathcliff;
`you shall not leave Wuthering Heights till tomorrow morning
It is a foolish story to assert that Catherine could not bear to see me; 
and as to surprising her, I don't desire it: 
you must prepare her ask her if I may come
You say she never mentions my name, and that I am never mentioned to her
To whom should she mention me if I am a forbidden topic in the house? 
She thinks you are all spies for her husband
Oh, I've no doubt she's in hell among you! 
I guess by her silence, as much as anything, what she feels
You say she is often restless, and anxious-looking; is that a proof of tranquillity? 
You talk of her mind being unsettled
How the devil could it be otherwise in her frightful isolation? 
And that insipid, paltry creature attending her from duty and humanity! 
From pity and charity! 
He might as well plant an oak in a flowerpot, and expect it to thrive, 
as imagine he can restore her to vigour in the soil of his shallow cares! 
Let us settle it at once: 
will you stay here, 
and am I to fight my way to Catherine over Linton and his footmen? 
Or will you be my friend as you have been hitherto, and do what I request? 
Decide! cause there is no reason for my lingering another minute, if you persist in your stubborn ill-nature!'
Well, Mr Lockwood, I argued and complained, and flatly refused him fifty times; 
but in the long run he forced me to an agreement
I engaged to carry a letter from him to my mistress; 
and should she consent, I promised to let him have intelligence of Linton's next absence from home, 
when he might come, and get in as he was able: 
I wouldn't be there, and my fellow-servants should be equally out of the way
Was it right or wrong? I fear it was wrong, though expedient
I thought I prevented another explosion by my compliance; 
and I thought, too, it might create a favourable crisis in Catherine's mental illness: 
and then I remembered Mr Edgar's stern rebuke of my carrying tales; 
and I tried to smooth away all disquietude on the subject, 
by affirming, with frequent iteration,
that that betrayal of trust, if it merited so harsh an appellation, should be the last
Notwithstanding, my journey homeward was sadder than my journey thither; 
and many misgivings I had, ere I could prevail on myself to put the missive into Mrs Linton's hand.
But here is Kenneth; 
I'll go down, and tell him how much better you are
My history is dree, as we say, and will serve to while away another morning.
Dree, and dreary! 
I reflected as the good woman descended to receive the doctor; 
and not exactly of the kind which I should have chosen to amuse me
But never mind! 
I'll extract wholesome medicines from Mrs Dean's bitter herbs; 
and firstly, 
let me beware the fascination that lurks in Catherine Heathcliff's brilliant eyes
I should be in a curious taking if I surrendered my heart to that young person, 
and the daughter turned out a second edition of the mother!
IT was nine o'clock Thursday morning when the 'Susie'left the Mississippi and entered Old River, or what isnow called the mouth of the Red
Ascending on the left,a flood was pouring in through and over the levees onthe Chandler plantation, the most northern point in PointeCoupee parish
The water completely covered the place,although the levees had given way but a short time before.
The stock had been gathered in a large flat-boat, where,without food, as we passed, the animals were huddled together,waiting for a boat to tow them off
On the right-hand sideof the river is Turnbull's Island, and on it is a large plantationwhich formerly was pronounced one of the most fertile in the State.The water has hitherto allowed it to go scot-free in usual floods,but now broad sheets of water told only where fields were.
The top of the protecting levee could be seen here and there,but nearly all of it was submerged.
The trees have put on a greener foliage since the water has poured in,and the woods look bright and fresh, but this pleasant aspect to the eyeis neutralized by the interminable waste of water
We pass mile after mile,and it is nothing but trees standing up to their branches in water.
A water-turkey now and again rises and flies ahead into the long avenueof silence
A pirogue sometimes flits from the bushes and crossesthe Red River on its way out to the Mississippi, but the sad-facedpaddlers never turn their heads to look at our boat
The puffingof the boat is music in this gloom, which affects one most curiously.
It is not the gloom of deep forests or dark caverns, but a peculiar kind ofsolemn silence and impressive awe that holds one perforce to its recognition.
We passed two negro families on a raft tied up in the willows this morning.
They were evidently of the well-to-do class, as they had a supply of mealand three or four hogs with them
Their rafts were about twenty feet square,and in front of an improvised shelter earth had been placed, on which theybuilt their fire.
The current running down the Atchafalaya was very swift,the Mississippi showing a predilection in that direction,which needs only to be seen to enforce the opinion of thatriver's desperate endeavors to find a short way to the Gulf.Small boats, skiffs, pirogues, etc., are in great demand,and many have been stolen by piratical negroes,who take them where they will bring the greatest price.
From what was told me by Mr
Ferguson, a planternear Red River Landing, whose place has just gone under,there is much suffering in the rear of that place.
The negroes had given up all thoughts of a crevasse there,as the upper levee had stood so long, and when it didcome they were at its mercy
On Thursday a number weretaken out of trees and off of cabin roofs and brought in,many yet remaining.
One does not appreciate the sight of earth until he has traveledthrough a flood
At sea one does not expect or look for it,but here, with fluttering leaves, shadowy forest aisles, house-topsbarely visible, it is expected
In fact a grave-yard, if the moundswere above water, would be appreciated
The river here is knownonly because there is an opening in the trees, and that is all.
It is in width, from Fort Adams on the left bank of the Mississippito the bank of Rapides Parish, a distance of about sixty miles.
A large portion of this was under cultivation, particularly alongthe Mississippi and back of the Red
When Red River properwas entered, a strong current was running directly across it,pursuing the same direction as that of the Mississippi.
After a run of some hours, Black River was reached.
Hardly was it entered before signs of suffering became visible.
All the willows along the banks were stripped of their leaves.
One man, whom your correspondent spoke to, said that he had had onehundred and fifty head of cattle and one hundred head of hogs.
At the first appearance of water he had started to drivethem to the high lands of Avoyelles, thirty-five miles off,but he lost fifty head of the beef cattle and sixty hogs.
Black River is quite picturesque, even if its shores are under water.
A dense growth of ash, oak, gum, and hickory make the shoresalmost impenetrable, and where one can get a view down someavenue in the trees, only the dim outlines of distant trunkscan be barely distinguished in the gloom.
A few miles up this river, the depth of water on the bankswas fully eight feet, and on all sides could be seen,still holding against the strong current, the tops of cabins.
Here and there one overturned was surrounded by drift-wood, formingthe nucleus of possibly some future island.
In order to save coal, as it was impossible to get that fuel at any pointto be touched during the expedition, a look-out was kept for a wood-pile.On rounding a point a pirogue, skilfully paddled by a youth, shot out,and in its bow was a girl of fifteen, of fair face, beautiful black eyes,and demure manners
The boy asked for a paper, which was thrown to him,and the couple pushed their tiny craft out into the swell of the boat.
Presently a little girl, not certainly over twelve years, paddled outin the smallest little canoe and handled it with all the deftnessof an old voyageur
The little one looked more like an Indianthan a white child, and laughed when asked if she were afraid.
She had been raised in a pirogue and could go anywhere.
She was bound out to pick willow leaves for the stock, and she pointedto a house near by with water three inches deep on the floors.
At its back door was moored a raft about thirty feet square,with a sort of fence built upon it, and inside of this some sixteencows and twenty hogs were standing
The family did not complain,except on account of losing their stock, and promptly brought asupply of wood in a flat.
From this point to the Mississippi River, fifteen miles, there is not a spotof earth above water, and to the westward for thirty-five miles thereis nothing but the river's flood
Black River had risen during Thursday,the 23rd, 1 inches, and was going up at night still.
As we progress up the river habitations become more frequent,but are yet still miles apart
Nearly all of them are deserted,and the out-houses floated off
To add to the gloom, almost everyliving thing seems to have departed, and not a whistle of a birdnor the bark of the squirrel can be heard in this solitude.
Sometimes a morose gar will throw his tail aloft and disappear in the river,but beyond this everything is quiet--the quiet of dissolution.
Down the river floats now a neatly whitewashed hen-house, thena cluster of neatly split fence-rails, or a door and a bloated carcass,solemnly guarded by a pair of buzzards, the only bird to be seen,which feast on the carcass as it bears them along
A picture-framein which there was a cheap lithograph of a soldier on horseback,as it floated on told of some hearth invaded by the water and despoiledof this ornament.
At dark, as it was not prudent to run, a place alongside the woods was huntedand to a tall gum-tree the boat was made fast for the night.
A pretty quarter of the moon threw a pleasant light over forest and river,making a picture that would be a delightful piece of landscape study,could an artist only hold it down to his canvas
The motion of the engines had ceased, the puffing of the escaping steam was stilled,and the enveloping silence closed upon us, and such silence it was!Usually in a forest at night one can hear the piping of frogs,the hum of insects, or the dropping of limbs; but here nature was dumb.
The dark recesses, those aisles into this cathedral, gave forth no sound,and even the ripplings of the current die away.
At daylight Friday morning all hands were up, and up the Black we started.
The morning was a beautiful one, and the river, which is remarkablystraight, put on its loveliest garb
The blossoms of the haw perfumedthe air deliciously, and a few birds whistled blithely along the banks.
The trees were larger, and the forest seemed of older growth than below.
More fields were passed than nearer the mouth, but the same scenepresented itself--smoke-houses drifting out in the pastures, negro quartersanchored in confusion against some oak, and the modest residence justshowing its eaves above water
The sun came up in a glory of carmine,and the trees were brilliant in their varied shades of green.
Not a foot of soil is to be seen anywhere, and the water is apparently growingdeeper and deeper, for it reaches up to the branches of the largest trees.All along, the bordering willows have been denuded of leaves, showing how longthe people have been at work gathering this fodder for their animals
An oldman in a pirogue was asked how the willow leaves agreed with his cattle.
He stopped in his work, and with an ominous shake of his head replied:'Well, sir, it 's enough to keep warmth in their bodies and that'sall we expect, but it's hard on the hogs, particularly the small ones.
They is dropping off powerful fast
But what can you do?  
It 'sall we've got.
At thirty miles above the mouth of Black River the waterextends from Natchez on the Mississippi across to the pinehills of Louisiana, a distance of seventy-three miles,and there is hardly a spot that is not ten feet under it.The tendency of the current up the Black is toward the west.In fact, so much is this the case, the waters of Red Riverhave been driven down from toward the Calcasieu country,and the waters of the Black enter the Red some fifteen milesabove the mouth of the former, a thing never before seen by eventhe oldest steamboatmen
The water now in sight of us is entirelyfrom the Mississippi.
Up to Trinity, or rather Troy, which is but a shortdistance below, the people have nearly all moved out,those remaining having enough for their present personal needs.Their cattle, though, are suffering and dying off quite fast,as the confinement on rafts and the food they get breeds disease.
After a short stop we started, and soon came to a section wherethere were many open fields and cabins thickly scattered about.
Here were seen more pictures of distress
On the inside of the housesthe inmates had built on boxes a scaffold on which they placedthe furniture
The bed-posts were sawed off on top, as the ceilingwas not more than four feet from the improvised floor
The buildingslooked very insecure, and threatened every moment to float off.
Near the houses were cattle standing breast high in the water,perfectly impassive
They did not move in their places, but stoodpatiently waiting for help to come
The sight was a distressing one,and the poor creatures will be sure to die unless speedily rescued.
Cattle differ from horses in this peculiar quality
A horse,after finding no relief comes, will swim off in search of food,whereas a beef will stand in its tracks until with exhaustion it drops inthe water and drowns.
At half-past twelve o'clock a hail was given from a flat-boatinside the line of the bank
Rounding to we ran alongside,and General York stepped aboard
He was just then engagedin getting off stock, and welcomed the 'Times-Democrat'boat heartily, as he said there was much need for her.
He said that the distress was not exaggerated in the least.
People were in a condition it was difficult even for one to imagine.
The water was so high there was great danger of their housesbeing swept away
It had already risen so high that it wasapproaching the eaves, and when it reaches this point there isalways imminent risk of their being swept away
If this occurs,there will be great loss of life
The General spoke of the gallantwork of many of the people in their attempts to save their stock, but thought that fully twenty-five per cent
Already twenty-five hundred people had received rations from Troy,on Black River, and he had towed out a great many cattle,but a very great quantity remained and were in dire need.The water was now eighteen inches higher than in 1874, and there wasno land between Vidalia and the hills of Catahoula.
At two o'clock the 'Susie' reached Troy, sixty-five miles abovethe mouth of Black River
Here on the left comes in Little River;just beyond that the Ouachita, and on the right the Tensas.
These three rivers form the Black River
Troy, or a portionof it, is situated on and around three large Indian mounds,circular in shape, which rise above the present waterabout twelve feet
They are about one hundred and fiftyfeet in diameter, and are about two hundred yards apart.
The houses are all built between these mounds, and hence are allflooded to a depth of eighteen inches on their floors.
These elevations, built by the aborigines, hundreds of years ago, are the only points of refuge for miles
When we arrived we found themcrowded with stock, all of which was thin and hardly able to stand up.They were mixed together, sheep, hogs, horses, mules, and cattle.One of these mounds has been used for many years as the grave-yard,and to-day we saw attenuated cows lying against the marble tomb-stones,chewing their cud in contentment, after a meal of corn furnishedby General York
Here, as below, the remarkable skill of the womenand girls in the management of the smaller pirogues was noticed.
Children were paddling about in these most ticklish crafts with all thenonchalance of adepts.
General York has put into operation a perfect system in regardto furnishing relief
He makes a personal inspection of the placewhere it is asked, sees what is necessary to be done, and then,having two boats chartered, with flats, sends them promptlyto the place, when the cattle are loaded and towed to the pinehills and uplands of Catahoula
He has made Troy his headquarters,and to this point boats come for their supply of feed for cattle.
On the opposite side of Little River, which branches to the leftout of Black, and between it and the Ouachita, is situatedthe town of Trinity, which is hourly threatened with destruction.
It is much lower than Troy, and the water is eight and ninefeet deep in the houses
A strong current sweeps through it,and it is remarkable that all of its houses have not gone before.
The residents of both Troy and Trinity have been cared for, yet someof their stock have to be furnished with food.
As soon as the 'Susie' reached Troy, she was turned over to General York,and placed at his disposition to carry out the work of relief more rapidly.Nearly all her supplies were landed on one of the mounds to lighten her,and she was headed down stream to relieve those below
At Tom Hooper's place,a few miles from Troy, a large flat, with about fifty head of stock on board,was taken in tow
The animals were fed, and soon regained some strength.
Today we go on Little River, where the suffering is greatest.
We started down Black River quite early, under the direction of General York,to bring out what stock could be reached
Going down river a flatin tow was left in a central locality, and from there men poled her backin the rear of plantations, picking up the animals wherever found.In the loft of a gin-house there were seventeen head found, and aftera gangway was built they were led down into the flat without difficulty.Taking a skiff with the General, your reporter was pulled up to a littlehouse of two rooms, in which the water was standing two feet on the floors.In one of the large rooms were huddled the horses and cows of the place,while in the other the Widow Taylor and her son were seated on a scaffoldraised on the floor
One or two dug-outs were drifting about in the roamready to be put in service at any time
When the flat was brought up,the side of the house was cut away as the only means of gettingthe animals out, and the cattle were driven on board the boat.
General York, in this as in every case, inquired if the family desiredto leave, informing them that Major Burke, of 'The Times-Democrat,'has sent the 'Susie' up for that purpose
Taylor said she thankedMajor Burke, but she would try and hold out
The remarkable tenacityof the people here to their homes is beyond all comprehension
Just below,at a point sixteen miles from Troy, information was received that the houseof Mr
Tom Ellis was in danger, and his family were all in it
We steamedthere immediately, and a sad picture was presented
Looking out of the halfof the window left above water, was Mrs
Ellis, who is in feeble health,whilst at the door were her seven children, the oldest not fourteen years.
One side of the house was given up to the work animals, some twelve head,besides hogs
In the next room the family lived, the water coming within twoinches of the bed-rail
The stove was below water, and the cooking was doneon a fire on top of it
The house threatened to give way at any moment:one end of it was sinking, and, in fact, the building looked a mere shell.
As the boat rounded to, Mr
Ellis came out in a dug-out, and GeneralYork told him that he had come to his relief; that 'The Times-Democrat'boat was at his service, and would remove his family at once to the hills,and on Monday a flat would take out his stock, as, until that time,they would be busy
Notwithstanding the deplorable situation himselfand family were in, Mr
Ellis did not want to leave
He said he thoughthe would wait until Monday, and take the risk of his house falling.
The children around the door looked perfectly contented, seeming to carelittle for the danger they were in
These are but two instances of the many.
After weeks of privation and suffering, people still cling to their housesand leave only when there is not room between the water and the ceilingto build a scaffold on which to stand
It seemed to be incomprehensible,yet the love for the old place was stronger than that for safety.
After leaving the Ellis place, the next spot touched atwas the Oswald place
Here the flat was towed alongsidethe gin-house where there were fifteen head standing in water;and yet, as they stood on scaffolds, their heads were abovethe top of the entrance
It was found impossible to getthem out without cutting away a portion of the front;and so axes were brought into requisition and a gap made.
After much labor the horses and mules were securely placedon the flat.
At each place we stop there are always three, four, or more dug-outsarriving, bringing information of stock in other places in need.
Notwithstanding the fact that a great many had driven a part of theirstock to the hills some time ago, there yet remains a large quantity,which General York, who is working with indomitable energy, will getlanded in the pine hills by Tuesday.
All along Black River the 'Susie' has been visited by scoresof planters, whose tales are the repetition of those alreadyheard of suffering and loss
An old planter, who has lived onthe river since 1844, said there never was such a rise, and he wassatisfied more than one quarter of the stock has been lost.
Luckily the people cared first for their work stock, and when theycould find it horses and mules were housed in a place of safety.
The rise which still continues, and was two inches last night,compels them to get them out to the hills; hence it isthat the work of General York is of such a great value.
From daylight to late at night he is going this way and that,cheering by his kindly words and directing with calm judgmentwhat is to be done
One unpleasant story, of a certainmerchant in New Orleans, is told all along the river.
It appears for some years past the planters have been dealingwith this individual, and many of them had balances in his hands.
When the overflow came they wrote for coffee, for meal, and,in fact, for such little necessities as were required.
No response to these letters came, and others were written,and yet these old customers, with plantations under water,were refused even what was necessary to sustain life
It is needlessto say he is not popular now on Back River.
The hills spoken of as the place of refuge for the people and stock on BlackRiver are in Catahoula parish, twenty-four miles from Black River.
Hooper, seven in number, who could not longer remainin their dwelling, and we are now taking them up Little Riverto the hills.
The flood here is rising about three and a half inches everytwenty-four hours, and rains have set in which will increase this.General York feels now that our efforts ought to be directed towardssaving life, as the increase of the water has jeopardized many houses.
We intend to go up the Tensas in a few minutes, and then wewill return and go down Black River to take off families.There is a lack of steam transportation here to meet the emergency.
The General has three boats chartered, with flats in tow,but the demand for these to tow out stock is greater than theycan meet with promptness
All are working night and day,and the 'Susie' hardly stops for more than an hour anywhere.
The rise has placed Trinity in a dangerous plight, and momentarilyit is expected that some of the houses will float off.
Troy is a little higher, yet all are in the water.
Reports have come in that a woman and child have beenwashed away below here, and two cabins floated off.
Their occupants are the same who refused to come off daybefore yesterday
One would not believe the utter passivenessof the people.
As yet no news has been received of the steamer 'Delia,' which issupposed to be the one sunk in yesterday's storm on Lake Catahoula.She is due here now, but has not arrived
Even the mail here ismost uncertain, and this I send by skiff to Natchez to get it to you.
It is impossible to get accurate data as to past crops, etc., asthose who know much about the matter have gone, and those who remainare not well versed in the production of this section.
General York desires me to say that the amount of rationsformerly sent should be duplicated and sent at once.
It is impossible to make any estimate, for the people are fleeingto the hills, so rapid is the rise
The residents here arein a state of commotion that can only be appreciated when seen, and complete demoralization has set in
If rations are drawn for any particular section hereabouts, they wouldnot be certain to be distributed, so everything should be sent to Troyas a center, and the General will have it properly disposed of.
He has sent for one hundred tents, and, if all go to the hills who arein motion now, two hundred will be required.
The condition of this rich valley of the Lower Mississippi,immediately after and since the war, constituted oneof the disastrous effects of war most to be deplored.
Fictitious property in slaves was not only righteously destroyed,but very much of the work which had depended upon the slave laborwas also destroyed or greatly impaired, especially the levee system.
It might have been expected by those who have not investigated the subject,that such important improvements as the construction and maintenanceof the levees would have been assumed at once by the several States.
But what can the State do where the people are under subjection torates of interest ranging from 18 to 30 per cent., and are also underthe necessity of pledging their crops in advance even of planting,at these rates, for the privilege of purchasing all of their supplies at 100per cent
It has needed but little attention to make it perfectly obviousthat the control of the Mississippi River, if undertaken at all,must be undertaken by the national government, and cannotbe compassed by States
The river must be treated as a unit;its control cannot be compassed under a divided or separatesystem of administration.
Neither are the States especially interested competentto combine among themselves for the necessary operations.
The work must begin far up the river; at least as far as Cairo,if not beyond; and must be conducted upon a consistent general planthroughout the course of the river.
It does not need technical or scientific knowledge to comprehend the elementsof the case if one will give a little time and attention to the subject,and when a Mississippi River commission has been constituted, as the existingcommission is, of thoroughly able men of different walks in life,may it not be suggested that their verdict in the case should be acceptedas conclusive, so far as any a priori theory of construction or controlcan be considered conclusive?
It should be remembered that upon this board are General Gilmore,General Comstock, and General Suter, of the United States Engineers;Professor Henry Mitchell, of the United States Coast Survey
Harrod,the State Engineer of Louisiana
Eads, whose successwith the jetties at New Orleans is a warrant of his competency,and Judge Taylor, of Indiana.
It would be presumption on the part of any single man, however skilled,to contest the judgment of such a board as this.
The method of improvement proposed by the commission is atonce in accord with the results of engineering experienceand with observations of nature where meeting our wants.
As in nature the growth of trees and their proneness where underminedto fall across the slope and support the bank secures at somepoints a fair depth of channel and some degree of permanence,so in the project of the engineer the use of timber and brushand the encouragement of forest growth are the main features.
It is proposed to reduce the width where excessive by brushwood dykes,at first low, but raised higher and higher as the mud of the riversettles under their shelter, and finally slope them back atthe angle upon which willows will grow freely
In this work thereare many details connected with the forms of these shelter dykes,their arrangements so as to present a series of settling basins,etc., a description of which would only complicate the conception.
Through the larger part of the river works of contractionwill not be required, but nearly all the banks on the concaveside of the beds must be held against the wear of the stream,and much of the opposite banks defended at critical points.
The works having in view this conservative object may begenerally designated works of revetment; and these alsowill be largely of brushwood, woven in continuous carpets,or twined into wire-netting
This veneering process has beensuccessfully employed on the Missouri River; and in some casesthey have so covered themselves with sediments, and have becomeso overgrown with willows, that they may be regarded as permanent.
In securing these mats rubble-stone is to be used in small quantities,and in some instances the dressed slope between high and low riverwill have to be more or less paved with stone.
Any one who has been on the Rhine will have observed operations not unlikethose to which we have just referred; and, indeed, most of the riversof Europe flowing among their own alluvia have required similar treatmentin the interest of navigation and agriculture.
The levee is the crowning work of bank revetment, although not necessarilyin immediate connection
It may be set back a short distance fromthe revetted bank; but it is, in effect, the requisite parapet.
The flood river and the low river cannot be brought into register,and compelled to unite in the excavation of a single permanent channel,without a complete control of all the stages; and even the abnormalrise must be provided against, because this would endanger the levee,and once in force behind the works of revetment would tear them also away.
Under the general principle that the local slope of a riveris the result and measure of the resistance of its bed, it isevident that a narrow and deep stream should have less slope,because it has less frictional surface in proportion to capacity;i.e., less perimeter in proportion to area of cross section.
The ultimate effect of levees and revetments confiningthe floods and bringing all the stages of the river intoregister is to deepen the channel and let down the slope.
The first effect of the levees is to raise the surface;but this, by inducing greater velocity of flow, inevitablycauses an enlargement of section, and if this enlargementis prevented from being made at the expense of the banks,the bottom must give way and the form of the waterwaybe so improved as to admit this flow with less rise.
The actual experience with levees upon the Mississippi River,with no attempt to hold the banks, has been favorable,and no one can doubt, upon the evidence furnished in the reportsof the commission, that if the earliest levees had beenaccompanied by revetment of banks, and made complete,we should have to-day a river navigable at low water,and an adjacent country safe from inundation.
Of course it would be illogical to conclude that the constrained rivercan ever lower its flood slope so as to make levees unnecessary,but it is believed that, by this lateral constraint, the riveras a conduit may be so improved in form that even those rarefloods which result from the coincident rising of many tributarieswill find vent without destroying levees of ordinary height.
That the actual capacity of a channel through alluvium dependsupon its service during floods has been often shown, but thiscapacity does not include anomalous, but recurrent, floods.
It is hardly worth while to consider the projects for relievingthe Mississippi River floods by creating new outlets,since these sensational propositions have commended themselvesonly to unthinking minds, and have no support among engineers.Were the river bed cast-iron, a resort to openings for surpluswaters might be a necessity; but as the bottom is yielding,and the best form of outlet is a single deep channel,as realizing the least ratio of perimeter to area of cross section,there could not well be a more unphilosophical method of treatmentthan the multiplication of avenues of escape.
In the foregoing statement the attempt has been made to condensein as limited a space as the importance of the subject would permit,the general elements of the problem, and the general featuresof the proposed method of improvement which has been adoptedby the Mississippi River Commission.
The writer cannot help feeling that it is somewhat presumptuous onhis part to attempt to present the facts relating to an enterprisewhich calls for the highest scientific skill; but it is a matterwhich interests every citizen of the United States, and is oneof the methods of reconstruction which ought to be approved.
It is a war claim which implies no private gain, and no compensationexcept for one of the cases of destruction incident to war,which may well be repaired by the people of the whole country.
Having now arrived nearly at the end of our travels,I am induced, ere I conclude, again to mention what I consideras one of the most remarkable traits in the national characterof the Americans; namely, their exquisite sensitiveness andsoreness respecting everything said or written concerning them.
Of this, perhaps, the most remarkable example I can give isthe effect produced on nearly every class of readers by theappearance of Captain Basil Hall's 'Travels in North America.'
In fact, it was a sort of moral earthquake, and the vibration itoccasioned through the nerves of the republic, from one cornerof the Union to the other, was by no means over when I leftthe country in July 1831, a couple of years after the shock.
I was in Cincinnati when these volumes came out, but itwas not till July 1830, that I procured a copy of them.
One bookseller to whom I applied told me that he had had a fewcopies before he understood the nature of the work, but that,after becoming acquainted with it, nothing should inducehim to sell another
Other persons of his profession must,however, have been less scrupulous; for the book was readin city, town, village, and hamlet, steamboat, and stage-coach,and a sort of war-whoop was sent forth perfectly unprecedentedin my recollection upon any occasion whatever.
An ardent desire for approbation, and a delicate sensitiveness under censure,have always, I believe, been considered as amiable traits of character;but the condition into which the appearance of Captain Hall's work threwthe republic shows plainly that these feelings, if carried to excess,produce a weakness which amounts to imbecility.
It was perfectly astonishing to hear men who, on other subjects,were of some judgment, utter their opinions upon this.
I never heard of any instance in which the commonsense generallyfound in national criticism was so overthrown by passion.
I do not speak of the want of justice, and of fair andliberal interpretation:  these, perhaps, were hardly to be expected.
Other nations have been called thin-skinned, but the citizensof the Union have, apparently, no skins at all; they wince if abreeze blows over them, unless it be tempered with adulation.
It was not, therefore, very surprising that the acute and forcibleobservations of a traveler they knew would be listened to should bereceived testily
The extraordinary features of the business were,first, the excess of the rage into which they lashed themselves;and, secondly, the puerility of the inventions by which theyattempted to account for the severity with which they fancied theyhad been treated.
Not content with declaring that the volumes contained no word of truth,from beginning to end (which is an assertion I heard made very nearlyas often as they were mentioned), the whole country set to workto discover the causes why Captain Hall had visited the United States,and why he had published his book.
I have heard it said with as much precision and gravityas if the statement had been conveyed by an official report,that Captain Hall had been sent out by the British Governmentexpressly for the purpose of checking the growing admirationof England for the Government of the United States,--that it was by a commission from the treasury he had come,and that it was only in obedience to orders that he had foundanything to object to.
I do not give this as the gossip of a coterie; I am persuaded that itis the belief of a very considerable portion of the country.
So deep is the conviction of this singular people that they cannotbe seen without being admired, that they will not admit the possibilitythat any one should honestly and sincerely find aught to disapprovein them or their country.
The American Reviews are, many of them, I believe, well known in England;I need not, therefore, quote them here, but I sometimes wonderedthat they, none of them, ever thought of translating Obadiah'scurse into classic American; if they had done so, on placing(he, Basil Hall) between brackets, instead of (he, Obadiah)it would have saved them a world of trouble.
I can hardly describe the curiosity with which I sat down at lengthto peruse these tremendous volumes; still less can I do justice to mysurprise at their contents
To say that I found not one exaggeratedstatement throughout the work is by no means saying enough.
It is impossible for any one who knows the country not to see thatCaptain Hall earnestly sought out things to admire and commend.
When he praises, it is with evident pleasure; and when he finds fault,it is with evident reluctance and restraint, excepting where motivespurely patriotic urge him to state roundly what it is for the benefitof his country should be known.
In fact, Captain Hall saw the country to the greatest possible advantage.
Furnished, of course, with letters of introduction to the mostdistinguished individuals, and with the still more influentialrecommendation of his own reputation, he was received in fulldrawing-room style and state from one end of the Union to the other.
He saw the country in full dress, and had little or no opportunityof judging of it unhouselled, unanointed, unannealed, with all itsimperfections on its head, as I and my family too often had.
Captain Hall had certainly excellent opportunities of makinghimself acquainted with the form of the government and the laws;and of receiving, moreover, the best oral commentary upon them,in conversation with the most distinguished citizens.
Of these opportunities he made excellent use; nothing important methis eye which did not receive that sort of analytical attentionwhich an experienced and philosophical traveler alone can give.
This has made his volumes highly interesting and valuable;but I am deeply persuaded, that were a man of equal penetrationto visit the United States with no other means of becomingacquainted with the national character than the ordinary working-dayintercourse of life, he would conceive an infinitely lower ideaof the moral atmosphere of the country than Captain Hall appearsto have done; and the internal conviction on my mind is strong,that if Captain Hall had not placed a firm restraint on himself,he must have given expression to far deeper indignation than any he hasuttered against many points in the American character, with whichhe shows from other circumstances that he was well acquainted.
His rule appears to have been to state just so much of the truthas would leave on the mind of his readers a correct impression,at the least cost of pain to the sensitive folks he was writing about.
He states his own opinions and feelings, and leaves it to beinferred that he has good grounds for adopting them; but he sparesthe Americans the bitterness which a detail of the circumstanceswould have produced.
If any one chooses to say that some wicked antipathy to twelvemillions of strangers is the origin of my opinion, I mustbear it; and were the question one of mere idle speculation,I certainly would not court the abuse I must meet for stating it.
But it is not so.
The candor which he expresses, and evidently feels, they mistake for irony,or totally distrust; his unwillingness to give pain to persons fromwhom he has received kindness, they scornfully reject as affectation,and although they must know right well, in their own secret hearts,how infinitely more they lay at his mercy than he has chosen to betray;they pretend, even to themselves, that he has exaggerated the bad pointsof their character and institutions; whereas, the truth is, that he haslet them off with a degree of tenderness which may be quite suitablefor him to exercise, however little merited; while, at the same time,he has most industriously magnified their merits, whenever he could possiblyfind anything favorable.
In a remote part of the North lived a man and his sister,who had never seen a human being
Seldom, if ever, had the manany cause to go from home; for, as his wants demanded food,he had only to go a little distance from the lodge, and there,in some particular spot, place his arrows, with their barbsin the ground
Telling his sister where they had been placed,every morning she would go in search, and never fail offinding each stuck through the heart of a deer
She had thenonly to drag them into the lodge and prepare their food.
Thus she lived till she attained womanhood, when one dayher brother, whose name was Iamo, said to her:  'Sister, the timeis at hand when you will be ill
Listen to my advice.
If you do not, it will probably be the cause of my death.
Take the implements with which we kindle our fires.
Go some distance from our lodge and build a separate fire.
When you are in want of food, I will tell you where to find it.
You must cook for yourself, and I will for myself.
When you are ill, do not attempt to come near the lodge,or bring any of the utensils you use
Be sure alwaysto fasten to your belt the implements you need, for youdo not know when the time will come
As for myself, I mustdo the best I can.'
His sister promised to obey him in allhe had said.
Shortly after, her brother had cause to go from home.
She was alone in her lodge, combing her hair
She had just untiedthe belt to which the implements were fastened, when suddenlythe event, to which her brother had alluded, occurred.
She ran out of the lodge, but in her haste forgot the belt.
Afraid to return, she stood for some time thinking.
Finally, she decided to enter the lodge and get it.
For, thought she, my brother is not at home, and I willstay but a moment to catch hold of it
She went back.
Running in suddenly, she caught hold of it, and was coming outwhen her brother came in sight
He knew what was the matter.'
Oh,' he said, 'did I not tell you to take care.
But now you have killed me.'
She was going on her way,but her brother said to her, 'What can you do there now.
The accident has happened
Go in, and stay where youhave always stayed
And what will become of you?
You have killed me.'
He then laid aside his hunting-dress and accoutrements, and soonafter both his feet began to turn black, so that he could not move.
Still he directed his sister where to place the arrows,that she might always have food
The inflammation continuedto increase, and had now reached his first rib; and he said:'Sister, my end is near
You must do as I tell you.
You see my medicine-sack, and my war-club tied to it
It containsall my medicines, and my war-plumes, and my paints of all colors.
As soon as the inflammation reaches my breast, you will takemy war-club
It has a sharp point, and you will cut off my head.
When it is free from my body, take it, place its neck in the sack,which you must open at one end
Then hang it up in its former place.
Do not forget my bow and arrows
One of the last youwill take to procure food
The remainder, tie in my sack,and then hang it up, so that I can look towards the door.
Now and then I will speak to you, but not often.'
His sister againpromised to obey.
In a little time his breast was affected
'Now,' said he,'take the club and strike off my head.'
She was afraid, but he toldher to muster courage
'Strike,' said he, and a smile was on his face.
Mustering all her courage, she gave the blow and cut off the head.'
Now,' said the head, 'place me where I told you.'
And fearfully she obeyed it in all its commands.
Retaining its animation, it looked around the lodge as usual,and it would command its sister to go in such places as it thoughtwould procure for her the flesh of different animals she needed.
One day the head said:  'The time is not distant when I shall be freedfrom this situation, and I shall have to undergo many sore evils.
So the superior manito decrees, and I must bear all patiently.'
In this situation we must leave the head.
In a certain part of the country was a village inhabited by anumerous and warlike band of Indians
In this village was a familyof ten young men--brothers
It was in the spring of the yearthat the youngest of these blackened his face and fasted.
His dreams were propitious
Having ended his fast, he wentsecretly for his brothers at night, so that none in the villagecould overhear or find out the direction they intended to go.
Though their drum was heard, yet that was a common occurrence.
Having ended the usual formalities, he told how favorablehis dreams were, and that he had called them togetherto know if they would accompany him in a war excursion.
They all answered they would
The third brother from the eldest,noted for his oddities, coming up with his war-club when his brotherhad ceased speaking, jumped up
'Yes,' said he, 'I will go,and this will be the way I will treat those I am going to fight;'and he struck the post in the center of the lodge, and gave a yell.
The others spoke to him, saying:  'Slow, slow, Mudjikewis, when youare in other people's lodges.'
So he sat down
Then, in turn,they took the drum, and sang their songs, and closed with a feast.
The youngest told them not to whisper their intentionto their wives, but secretly to prepare for their journey.
They all promised obedience, and Mudjikewis was the firstto say so.
The time for their departure drew near
Word was given toassemble on a certain night, when they would depart immediately.
Mudjikewis was loud in his demands for his moccasins.
Several times his wife asked him the reason
'Besides,' said she,'you have a good pair on.'
'Quick, quick,' said he, 'since youmust know, we are going on a war excursion; so be quick.'
He thus revealed the secret
That night they met and started.
The snow was on the ground, and they traveled all night, lest othersshould follow them
When it was daylight, the leader took snowand made a ball of it, then tossing it into the air, he said:'It was in this way I saw snow fall in a dream, so that I could notbe tracked.'
And he told them to keep close to each other for fearof losing themselves, as the snow began to fall in very large flakes.
Near as they walked, it was with difficulty they could see each other.
The snow continued falling all that day and the following night,so it was impossible to track them.
They had now walked for several days, and Mudjikewis wasalways in the rear
'Brothers,' said he, 'this will be the way Iwill serve those we are going to fight.'
The leader answered,'Slow, slow, Mudjikewis, the one I lead you to is not to be thoughtof so lightly.'
Again he fell back and thought to himself:'What!
what!
who can this be he is leading us to?
He felt fearful and was silent
Day after day they traveled on,till they came to an extensive plain, on the borders of whichhuman bones were bleaching in the sun
The leader spoke:'They are the bones of those who have gone before us.
None has ever yet returned to tell the sad tale of their fate.'
Again Mudjikewis became restless, and, running forward,gave the accustomed yell
Advancing to a large rock whichstood above the ground, he struck it, and it fell to pieces.'
See, brothers,' said he, 'thus will I treat those whom we aregoing to fight.'
'Still, still,' once more said the leader;'he to whom I am leading you is not to be comparedto the rock.'
Mudjikewis fell back thoughtful, saying to himself:  'I wonderwho this can be that he is going to attack;' and he was afraid.
Still they continued to see the remains of former warriors,who had been to the place where they were now going,some of whom had retreated as far back as the place where theyfirst saw the bones, beyond which no one had ever escaped.
At last they came to a piece of rising ground, from which theyplainly distinguished, sleeping on a distant mountain,a mammoth bear.
The distance between them was very great, but the size of the animalcaused him to be plainly seen
'There,' said the leader,'it is he to whom I am leading you; here our troubles will commence,for he is a mishemokwa and a manito
You must not be fearful:be manly
We shall find him asleep.'
Then the leader wentforward and touched the belt around the animal's neck.
'This,' said he, 'is what we must get
It contains the wampum.
Then they requested the eldest to try and slip the belt overthe bear's head, who appeared to be fast asleep, as he was notin the least disturbed by the attempt to obtain the belt.
All their efforts were in vain, till it came to the onenext the youngest
He tried, and the belt moved nearlyover the monster's head, but he could get it no farther.
Then the youngest one, and the leader, made his attempt, and succeeded.
Placing it on the back of the oldest, he said, 'Now we must run,'and off they started
When one became fatigued with its weight,another would relieve him
Thus they ran till they had passedthe bones of all former warriors, and were some distance beyond,when looking back, they saw the monster slowly rising.
He stood some time before he missed his wampum
Soon they heard histremendous howl, like distant thunder, slowly filling all the sky;and then they heard him speak and say, 'Who can it be that hasdared to steal my wampum?
earth is not so large but that Ican find them;' and he descended from the hill in pursuit.
As if convulsed, the earth shook with every jump he made.
Very soon he approached the party
They, however, kept the belt,exchanging it from one to another, and encouraging each other;but he gained on them fast
'Brothers,' said the leader,'has never any one of you, when fasting, dreamed of some friendlyspirit who would aid you as a guardian?'
A dead silence followed.'
Well,' said he, 'fasting, I dreamed of being in dangerof instant death, when I saw a small lodge, with smoke curlingfrom its top
An old man lived in it, and I dreamed he helped me;and may it be verified soon,' he said, running forward andgiving the peculiar yell, and a howl as if the sounds camefrom the depths of his stomach, and what is called CHECAUDUM.
Getting upon a piece of rising ground, behold!
a lodge, with smokecurling from its top, appeared
This gave them all new strength,and they ran forward and entered it
The leader spoke tothe old man who sat in the lodge, saying, 'Nemesho, help us;we claim your protection, for the great bear will kill us.'
'Sit down and eat, my grandchildren,' said the old man.'
Who is a great manito?'
said he
'There is none but me;but let me look,' and he opened the door of the lodge, when,lo!
at a little distance he saw the enraged animal coming on,with slow but powerful leaps
He closed the door.'
Yes,' said he, 'he is indeed a great manito:  my grandchildren,you will be the cause of my losing my life; you asked my protection,and I granted it; so now, come what may, I will protect you.
When the bear arrives at the door, you must run out of the otherdoor of the lodge.'
Then putting his hand to the side ofthe lodge where he sat, he brought out a bag which he opened.
Taking out two small black dogs, he placed them before him.'
These are the ones I use when I fight,' said he; and he commencedpatting with both hands the sides of one of them, and he beganto swell out, so that he soon filled the lodge by his bulk;and he had great strong teeth
When he attained his fullsize he growled, and from that moment, as from instinct,he jumped out at the door and met the bear, who in another leapwould have reached the lodge
A terrible combat ensued.
The skies rang with the howls of the fierce monsters.
The remaining dog soon took the field
The brothers, at the onset,took the advice of the old man, and escaped through the oppositeside of the lodge
They had not proceeded far before they heardthe dying cry of one of the dogs, and soon after of the other.'
Well,' said the leader, 'the old man will share their fate:so run; he will soon be after us.'
They started with fresh vigor,for they had received food from the old man:  but very soon the bearcame in sight, and again was fast gaining upon them
Again the leaderasked the brothers if they could do nothing for their safety.
All were silent
The leader, running forward, did as before.
'I dreamed,' he cried, 'that, being in great trouble, an oldman helped me who was a manito; we shall soon see his lodge.'
Taking courage, they still went on
After going a short distancethey saw the lodge of the old manito
They entered immediatelyand claimed his protection, telling him a manito was after them.
The old man, setting meat before them, said:  'Eat!'
who is amanito?
There is no manito but me; there is none whom I fear;'and the earth trembled as the monster advanced
The old manopened the door and saw him coming
He shut it slowly, and said:'Yes, my grandchildren, you have brought trouble upon me.'
Procuring his medicine-sack, he took out his small war-clubs ofblack stone, and told the young men to run through the other sideof the lodge
As he handled the clubs, they became very large,and the old man stepped out just as the bear reached the door.
Then striking him with one of the clubs, it broke in pieces;the bear stumbled
Renewing the attempt with the otherwar-club, that also was broken, but the bear fell senseless.
Each blow the old man gave him sounded like a clap of thunder,and the howls of the bear ran along till they filled theheavens.
The young men had now run some distance, when they looked back.
They could see that the bear was recovering from the blows.
First he moved his paws, and soon they saw him riseon his feet
The old man shared the fate of the first,for they now heard his cries as he was torn in pieces.
Again the monster was in pursuit, and fast overtaking them.
Not yet discouraged, the young men kept on their way;but the bear was now so close, that the leader once more appliedto his brothers, but they could do nothing
'Well,' said he,'my dreams will soon be exhausted; after this I have but one more.'
He advanced, invoking his guardian spirit to aid him.
'Once,' said he, 'I dreamed that, being sorely pressed, I came to alarge lake, on the shore of which was a canoe, partly out of water,having ten paddles all in readiness
Do not fear,' he cried,'we shall soon get it.'
And so it was, even as he had said.
Coming to the lake, they saw the canoe with ten paddles,and immediately they embarked
Scarcely had they reached the centerof the lake, when they saw the bear arrive at its borders.
Lifting himself on his hind legs, he looked all around.
Then he waded into the water; then losing his footing he turned back,and commenced making the circuit of the lake
Meantime the partyremained stationary in the center to watch his movements.
He traveled all around, till at last he came to the place fromwhence he started
Then he commenced drinking up the water,and they saw the current fast setting in towards his open mouth.
The leader encouraged them to paddle hard for the opposite shore.
When only a short distance from land, the current had increasedso much, that they were drawn back by it, and all their effortsto reach it were in vain.
Then the leader again spoke, telling them to meet their fates manfully.
'Now is the time, Mudjikewis,' said he, 'to show your prowess.
Take courage and sit at the bow of the canoe; and when it approacheshis mouth, try what effect your club will have on his head.
He obeyed, and stood ready to give the blow; while the leader,who steered, directed the canoe for the open mouth of the monster.
Rapidly advancing, they were just about to enter his mouth, when Mudjikewisstruck him a tremendous blow on the head, and gave the SAW-SAW-QUAN.
The bear's limbs doubled under him, and he fell, stunned by the blow.
But before Mudjikewis could renew it, the monster disgorged allthe water he had drank, with a force which sent the canoe with greatvelocity to the opposite shore
Instantly leaving the canoe,again they fled, and on they went till they were completely exhausted.
The earth again shook, and soon they saw the monster hardafter them
Their spirits drooped, and they felt discouraged.
The leader exerted himself, by actions and words, to cheer them up;and once more he asked them if they thought of nothing, or coulddo nothing for their rescue; and, as before, all were silent.'
Then,' he said, 'this is the last time I can apply to my guardian spirit.
Now, if we do not succeed, our fates are decided.
He ran forward,invoking his spirit with great earnestness, and gave the yell.'
We shall soon arrive,' said he to his brothers, 'at the place wheremy last guardian spirit dwells
In him I place great confidence.
Do not, do not be afraid, or your limbs will be fear-bound
We shallsoon reach his lodge
'Run, run,' he cried.
Returning now to Iamo, he had passed all the time in the samecondition we had left him, the head directing his sister,in order to procure food, where to place the magic arrows,and speaking at long intervals
One day the sister saw the eyesof the head brighten, as if with pleasure
At last it spoke.
Oh, sister,' it said, 'in what a pitiful situation youhave been the cause of placing me!
Soon, very soon, a partyof young men will arrive and apply to me for aid; but alas!
How can I give what I would have done with so much pleasure?
Nevertheless, take two arrows, and place them where you havebeen in the habit of placing the others, and have meat preparedand cooked before they arrive
When you hear them comingand calling on my name, go out and say, "Alas!
it is longago that an accident befell him
I was the cause of it.
If they still come near, ask them in, and set meat before them.
And now you must follow my directions strictly
When the bearis near, go out and meet him
You will take my medicine-sack, bowsand arrows, and my head
You must then untie the sack, and spreadout before you my paints of all colors, my war-eagle feathers,my tufts of dried hair, and whatever else it contains.
As the bear approaches, you will take all these articles,one by one, and say to him, "This is my deceased brother's paint,"and so on with all the other articles, throwing each of themas far as you can
The virtues contained in them will causehim to totter; and, to complete his destruction, you will takemy head, and that too you will cast as far off as you can,crying aloud, "See, this is my deceased brother's head.
He will then fall senseless
By this time the young menwill have eaten, and you will call them to your assistance.
You must then cut the carcass into pieces, yes, into small pieces,and scatter them to the four winds; for, unless you do this,he will again revive.'
She promised that all should bedone as he said
She had only time to prepare the meat,when the voice of the leader was heard calling upon Iamo for aid.
The woman went out and said as her brother had directed.
But the war party being closely pursued, came up to the lodge.
She invited them in, and placed the meat before them.
While they were eating, they heard the bear approaching.
Untying the medicine-sack and taking the head, she had allin readiness for his approach
When he came up she didas she had been told; and, before she had expended the paintsand feathers, the bear began to totter, but, still advancing,came close to the woman
Saying as she was commanded, she thentook the head, and cast it as far from her as she could.
As it rolled along the ground, the blood, excited by the feelingsof the head in this terrible scene, gushed from the nose and mouth.
The bear, tottering, soon fell with a tremendous noise.
Then she cried for help, and the young men camerushing out, having partially regained their strength andspirits.
Mudjikewis, stepping up, gave a yell and struck him a blow uponthe head
This he repeated, till it seemed like a mass of brains,while the others, as quick as possible, cut him into very small pieces,which they then scattered in every direction
While thus employed,happening to look around where they had thrown the meat,wonderful to behold, they saw starting up and turning off in everydirection small black bears, such as are seen at the present day.
The country was soon overspread with these black animals.
And it was from this monster that the present race of bearsderived their origin.
Having thus overcome their pursuer, they returned to the lodge.
In the meantime, the woman, gathering the implements she had used,and the head, placed them again in the sack
But the head did notspeak again, probably from its great exertion to overcome the monster.
Having spent so much time and traversed so vast a country in their flight,the young men gave up the idea of ever returning to their own country,and game being plenty, they determined to remain where they now were.
One day they moved off some distance from the lodge for thepurpose of hunting, having left the wampum with the woman.
They were very successful, and amused themselves, as all youngmen do when alone, by talking and jesting with each other.
One of them spoke and said, 'We have all this sport to ourselves;let us go and ask our sister if she will not let us bring the headto this place, as it is still alive
It may be pleased to hear us talk,and be in our company
In the meantime take food to our sister.'
They went and requested the head
She told them to take it,and they took it to their hunting-grounds, and tried to amuse it,but only at times did they see its eyes beam with pleasure.
One day, while busy in their encampment, they were unexpectedly attackedby unknown Indians
The skirmish was long contested and bloody;many of their foes were slain, but still they were thirty to one.
The young men fought desperately till they were all killed.
The attacking party then retreated to a height of ground,to muster their men, and to count the number of missing and slain.
One of their young men had stayed away, and, in endeavoringto overtake them, came to the place where the head was hung up.
Seeing that alone retain animation, he eyed it for some timewith fear and surprise
However, he took it down and openedthe sack, and was much pleased to see the beautiful feathers,one of which he placed on his head.
Starting off, it waved gracefully over him till he reached his party,when he threw down the head and sack, and told them how he hadfound it, and that the sack was full of paints and feathers.
They all looked at the head and made sport of it.
Numbers of the young men took the paint and painted themselves,and one of the party took the head by the hair and said--
'Look, you ugly thing, and see your paints on the faces of warriors.'
But the feathers were so beautiful, that numbers of themalso placed them on their heads
Then again they used allkinds of indignity to the head, for which they were in turnrepaid by the death of those who had used the feathers.
Then the chief commanded them to throw away all except the head.'
We will see,' said he, 'when we get home, what we can do with it.
We will try to make it shut its eyes.'
When they reached their homes they took it to the council-lodge,and hung it up before the fire, fastening it with raw hide soaked,which would shrink and become tightened by the action of the fire.'
We will then see,' they said, 'if we cannot make it shut its eyes.'
Meantime, for several days, the sister had been waiting for the youngmen to bring back the head; till, at last, getting impatient,she went in search of it
The young men she found lying withinshort distances of each other, dead, and covered with wounds.
Various other bodies lay scattered in different directions around them.
She searched for the head and sack, but they were nowhere to be found.
She raised her voice and wept, and blackened her face
Then shewalked in different directions, till she came to the place from whencethe head had been taken
Then she found the magic bow and arrows,where the young men, ignorant of their qualities, had left them.
She thought to herself that she would find her brother's head, and cameto a piece of rising ground, and there saw some of his paints and feathers.
These she carefully put up, and hung upon the branch of a tree tillher return.
At dusk she arrived at the first lodge of a very extensive village.
Here she used a charm, common among Indians when they wish to meetwith a kind reception
On applying to the old man and womanof the lodge, she was kindly received
She made known her errand.
The old man promised to aid her, and told her the head was hung up beforethe council-fire, and that the chiefs of the village, with their young men,kept watch over it continually
The former are considered as manitoes.
She said she only wished to see it, and would be satisfied if she could onlyget to the door of the lodge
She knew she had not sufficient power to takeit by force
'Come with me,' said the Indian, 'I will take you there.'
They went, and they took their seats near the door
The council-lodgewas filled with warriors, amusing themselves with games, and constantlykeeping up a fire to smoke the head, as they said, to make dry meat.
They saw the head move, and not knowing what to make of it, one spokeand said:  'Ha!
ha!
It is beginning to feel the effects of the smoke.'
The sister looked up from the door, and her eyes met those of her brother,and tears rolled down the cheeks of the head
'Well,' said the chief,'I thought we would make you do something at last
Look!
look at it--shedding tears,' said he to those around him; and they all laughed and passedtheir jokes upon it
The chief, looking around, and observing the woman,after some time said to the man who came with her:  'Who have you got there?
I have never seen that woman before in our village.'
'Yes,' replied the man,'you have seen her; she is a relation of mine, and seldom goes out
She staysat my lodge, and asked me to allow her to come with me to this place.'
In the center of the lodge sat one of those young men who are always forward,and fond of boasting and displaying themselves before others.'
Why,' said he, 'I have seen her often, and it is to this lodge I go almostevery night to court her.'
All the others laughed and continued their games.
The young man did not know he was telling a lie to the woman's advantage,who by that means escaped.
She returned to the man's lodge, and immediately set out for herown country
Coming to the spot where the bodies of her adoptedbrothers lay, she placed them together, their feet toward the east.
Then taking an ax which she had, she cast it up into the air,crying out, 'Brothers, get up from under it, or it will fall on you.'
This she repeated three times, and the third time the brothers all aroseand stood on their feet.
Mudjikewis commenced rubbing his eyes and stretching himself.'
Why,' said he, 'I have overslept myself.'
'No, indeed,'said one of the others, 'do you not know we were all killed,and that it is our sister who has brought us to life?'
The young men took the bodies of their enemies and burned them.
Soon after, the woman went to procure wives for them,in a distant country, they knew not where; but she returnedwith ten young women, which she gave to the ten young men,beginning with the eldest
Mudjikewis stepped to and fro,uneasy lest he should not get the one he liked.
But he was not disappointed, for she fell to his lot.
And they were well matched, for she was a female magician.
They then all moved into a very large lodge, and their sistertold them that the women must now take turns in goingto her brother's head every night, trying to untie it.
They all said they would do so with pleasure
The eldestmade the first attempt, and with a rushing noise she fledthrough the air.
Toward daylight she returned
She had been unsuccessful, as she succeededin untying only one of the knots
All took their turns regularly,and each one succeeded in untying only one knot each time.
But when the youngest went, she commenced the work as soonas she reached the lodge; although it had always been occupied,still the Indians never could see any one
For ten nights now,the smoke had not ascended, but filled the lodge and drove them out.
This last night they were all driven out, and the young woman carriedoff the head.
The young people and the sister heard the young womancoming high through the air, and they heard her saying:'Prepare the body of our brother.'
And as soon as they heard it,they went to a small lodge where the black body of Iamo lay.
His sister commenced cutting the neck part, from which the neckhad been severed
She cut so deep as to cause it to bleed;and the others who were present, by rubbing the body andapplying medicines, expelled the blackness
In the meantime,the one who brought it, by cutting the neck of the head, caused thatalso to bleed.
As soon as she arrived, they placed that close to the body,and, by aid of medicines and various other means, succeeded inrestoring Iamo to all his former beauty and manliness.
All rejoiced in the happy termination of their troubles,and they had spent some time joyfully together, when Iamo said:'Now I will divide the wampum,' and getting the belt which containedit, he commenced with the eldest, giving it in equal portions.
But the youngest got the most splendid and beautiful,as the bottom of the belt held the richest and rarest.
They were told that, since they had all once died, and wererestored to life, they were no longer mortal, but spirits,and they were assigned different stations in the invisible world.
Only Mudjikewis's place was, however, named
He was to directthe west wind, hence generally called Kebeyun, there to remain for ever.
They were commanded, as they had it in their power, to do goodto the inhabitants of the earth, and, forgetting their sufferingsin procuring the wampum, to give all things with a liberal hand.
And they were also commanded that it should also be held by them sacred;those grains or shells of the pale hue to be emblematic of peace,while those of the darker hue would lead to evil and war.
The spirits then, amid songs and shouts, took their flight to theirrespective abodes on high; while Iamo, with his sister Iamoqua,descended into the depths below.
The River and Its History
The Mississippi is well worth reading about
It is not acommonplace river, but on the contrary is in all ways remarkable.
Considering the Missouri its main branch, it is the longestriver in the world--four thousand three hundred miles.
It seems safe to say that it is also the crookedest river in the world,since in one part of its journey it uses up one thousand three hundredmiles to cover the same ground that the crow would fly over in sixhundred and seventy-five
It discharges three times as much wateras the St
Lawrence, twenty-five times as much as the Rhine,and three hundred and thirty-eight times as much as the Thames.
No other river has so vast a drainage-basin: it draws its watersupply from twenty-eight States and Territories; from Delaware,on the Atlantic seaboard, and from all the country between that and Idahoon the Pacific slope--a spread of forty-five degrees of longitude.
The Mississippi receives and carries to the Gulf water fromfifty-four subordinate rivers that are navigable by steamboats,and from some hundreds that are navigable by flats and keels.
The area of its drainage-basin is as great as the combined areasof England, Wales, Scotland, Ireland, France, Spain, Portugal, Germany,Austria, Italy, and Turkey; and almost all this wide region is fertile;the Mississippi valley, proper, is exceptionally so.
It is a remarkable river in this:  that instead of widening toward its mouth,it grows narrower; grows narrower and deeper
From the junction of the Ohioto a point half way down to the sea, the width averages a mile in high water:thence to the sea the width steadily diminishes, until, at the 'Passes,' abovethe mouth, it is but little over half a mile
At the junction of the Ohiothe Mississippi's depth is eighty-seven feet; the depth increases gradually,reaching one hundred and twenty-nine just above the mouth.
The difference in rise and fall is also remarkable--not in the upper,but in the lower river
The rise is tolerably uniform down to Natchez(three hundred and sixty miles above the mouth)--about fifty feet.
But at Bayou La Fourche the river rises only twenty-four feet;at New Orleans only fifteen, and just above the mouth only twoand one half.
An article in the New Orleans 'Times-Democrat,' based upon reportsof able engineers, states that the river annually empties four hundredand six million tons of mud into the Gulf of Mexico--which brings to mindCaptain Marryat's rude name for the Mississippi--'the Great Sewer.'
This mud, solidified, would make a mass a mile square and two hundredand forty-one feet high.
The mud deposit gradually extends the land--but only gradually;it has extended it not quite a third of a mile in the two hundredyears which have elapsed since the river took its place in history.
The belief of the scientific people is, that the mouth used to beat Baton Rouge, where the hills cease, and that the two hundredmiles of land between there and the Gulf was built by the river.
This gives us the age of that piece of country, without anytrouble at all--one hundred and twenty thousand years.
Yet it is much the youthfullest batch of country that liesaround there anywhere.
The Mississippi is remarkable in still another way--its disposition to make prodigious jumps by cutting through narrownecks of land, and thus straightening and shortening itself.
More than once it has shortened itself thirty miles ata single jump!
These cut-offs have had curious effects:they have thrown several river towns out into the rural districts,and built up sand bars and forests in front of them.
The town of Delta used to be three miles below Vicksburg:a recent cutoff has radically changed the position, and Delta is now TWOMILES ABOVE Vicksburg.
Both of these river towns have been retired to the country by thatcut-off
A cut-off plays havoc with boundary lines and jurisdictions:for instance, a man is living in the State of Mississippi to-day,a cut-off occurs to-night, and to-morrow the man finds himselfand his land over on the other side of the river, within theboundaries and subject to the laws of the State of Louisiana!
Such a thing, happening in the upper river in the old times,could have transferred a slave from Missouri to Illinois and madea free man of him.
The Mississippi does not alter its locality by cut-offs alone:it is always changing its habitat BODILY--is always moving bodily SIDEWISE.
At Hard Times, La.
, the river is two miles west of the region itused to occupy
As a result, the original SITE of that settlementis not now in Louisiana at all, but on the other side of the river,in the State of Mississippi
NEARLY THE WHOLE OF THAT ONE THOUSANDTHREE HUNDRED MILES OF OLD MISSISSIPPI RIVER WHICH LA SALLE FLOATED DOWNIN HIS CANOES, TWO HUNDRED YEARS AGO, IS GOOD SOLID DRY GROUND NOW.
The river lies to the right of it, in places, and to the left of itin other places.
Although the Mississippi's mud builds land but slowly, down atthe mouth, where the Gulfs billows interfere with its work,it builds fast enough in better protected regions higher up:for instance, Prophet's Island contained one thousand fivehundred acres of land thirty years ago; since then the river hasadded seven hundred acres to it.
But enough of these examples of the mighty stream's eccentricitiesfor the present--I will give a few more of them further alongin the book.
Let us drop the Mississippi's physical history, and say a wordabout its historical history--so to speak
We can glance brieflyat its slumbrous first epoch in a couple of short chapters;at its second and wider-awake epoch in a couple more; at itsflushest and widest-awake epoch in a good many succeeding chapters;and then talk about its comparatively tranquil present epochin what shall be left of the book.
The world and the books are so accustomed to use, and over-use,the word 'new' in connection with our country, that we early get andpermanently retain the impression that there is nothing old about it.
We do of course know that there are several comparatively old dates inAmerican history, but the mere figures convey to our minds no just idea,no distinct realization, of the stretch of time which they represent.
To say that De Soto, the first white man who ever saw the Mississippi River,saw it in 1542, is a remark which states a fact without interpreting it:it is something like giving the dimensions of a sunset by astronomicalmeasurements, and cataloguing the colors by their scientific names;--as aresult, you get the bald fact of the sunset, but you don't see the sunset.
It would have been better to paint a picture of it.
The date 1542, standing by itself, means little or nothing to us;but when one groups a few neighboring historical dates and factsaround it, he adds perspective and color, and then realizes that thisis one of the American dates which is quite respectable for age.
For instance, when the Mississippi was first seen by a white man, less thana quarter of a century had elapsed since Francis I.'
s defeat at Pavia;the death of Raphael; the death of Bayard, SANS PEUR ET SANS REPROCHE;the driving out of the Knights-Hospitallers from Rhodes by the Turks;and the placarding of the Ninety-Five Propositions,--the act whichbegan the Reformation
When De Soto took his glimpse of the river,Ignatius Loyola was an obscure name; the order of the Jesuits was notyet a year old; Michael Angelo's paint was not yet dry on the LastJudgment in the Sistine Chapel; Mary Queen of Scots was not yet born,but would be before the year closed
Catherine de Medici was a child;Elizabeth of England was not yet in her teens; Calvin, Benvenuto Cellini,and the Emperor Charles V
were at the top of their fame,and each was manufacturing history after his own peculiar fashion;Margaret of Navarre was writing the 'Heptameron' and some religious books,--the first survives, the others are forgotten, wit and indelicacybeing sometimes better literature preservers than holiness;lax court morals and the absurd chivalry business were in full feather,and the joust and the tournament were the frequent pastime of titled finegentlemen who could fight better than they could spell, while religionwas the passion of their ladies, and classifying their offspringinto children of full rank and children by brevet their pastime.
In fact, all around, religion was in a peculiarly blooming condition:the Council of Trent was being called; the Spanish Inquisition was roasting,and racking, and burning, with a free hand; elsewhere on the continentthe nations were being persuaded to holy living by the sword and fire;in England, Henry VIII
had suppressed the monasteries, burnt Fisherand another bishop or two, and was getting his English reformationand his harem effectively started
When De Soto stood on the banksof the Mississippi, it was still two years before Luther's death;eleven years before the burning of Servetus; thirty years beforethe St
Bartholomew slaughter; Rabelais was not yet published;'Don Quixote' was not yet written; Shakespeare was not yet born;a hundred long years must still elapse before Englishmen would hear the nameof Oliver Cromwell.
Unquestionably the discovery of the Mississippi is a datablefact which considerably mellows and modifies the shiny newnessof our country, and gives her a most respectable outside-aspectof rustiness and antiquity.
De Soto merely glimpsed the river, then died and was buriedin it by his priests and soldiers
One would expect the priestsand the soldiers to multiply the river's dimensions by ten--the Spanish custom of the day--and thus move other adventurersto go at once and explore it
On the contrary, their narrativeswhen they reached home, did not excite that amount of curiosity.
The Mississippi was left unvisited by whites during a termof years which seems incredible in our energetic days.
One may 'sense' the interval to his mind, after a fashion,by dividing it up in this way:  After De Soto glimpsed the river,a fraction short of a quarter of a century elapsed, and thenShakespeare was born; lived a trifle more than half a century,then died; and when he had been in his grave considerably morethan half a century, the SECOND white man saw the Mississippi.
In our day we don't allow a hundred and thirty years to elapsebetween glimpses of a marvel
If somebody should discovera creek in the county next to the one that the North Pole is in,Europe and America would start fifteen costly expeditions thither:one to explore the creek, and the other fourteen to huntfor each other.
For more than a hundred and fifty years there had been whitesettlements on our Atlantic coasts
These people were in intimatecommunication with the Indians:  in the south the Spaniardswere robbing, slaughtering, enslaving and converting them;higher up, the English were trading beads and blankets to themfor a consideration, and throwing in civilization and whiskey,'for lagniappe;' and in Canada the French were schooling themin a rudimentary way, missionarying among them, and drawing wholepopulations of them at a time to Quebec, and later to Montreal,to buy furs of them
Necessarily, then, these various clustersof whites must have heard of the great river of the far west;and indeed, they did hear of it vaguely,--so vaguely and indefinitely,that its course, proportions, and locality were hardly even guessable.
The mere mysteriousness of the matter ought to have firedcuriosity and compelled exploration; but this did not occur.
Apparently nobody happened to want such a river, nobody needed it,nobody was curious about it; so, for a century and a halfthe Mississippi remained out of the market and undisturbed.
When De Soto found it, he was not hunting for a river, and hadno present occasion for one; consequently he did not value itor even take any particular notice of it.
But at last La Salle the Frenchman conceived the idea ofseeking out that river and exploring it
It always happensthat when a man seizes upon a neglected and important idea,people inflamed with the same notion crop up all around.
It happened so in this instance.
Naturally the question suggests itself, Why did these people want the rivernow when nobody had wanted it in the five preceding generations?
Apparently it was because at this late day they thought theyhad discovered a way to make it useful; for it had come to bebelieved that the Mississippi emptied into the Gulf of California,and therefore afforded a short cut from Canada to China.
Previously the supposition had been that it emptied into the Atlantic,or Sea of Virginia.
The River and Its Explorers
LA SALLE himself sued for certain high privileges, and theywere graciously accorded him by Louis XIV of inflated memory.
Chief among them was the privilege to explore, far and wide,and build forts, and stake out continents, and hand the same overto the king, and pay the expenses himself; receiving, in return,some little advantages of one sort or another; among themthe monopoly of buffalo hides
He spent several years andabout all of his money, in making perilous and painful tripsbetween Montreal and a fort which he had built on the Illinois,before he at last succeeded in getting his expedition in sucha shape that he could strike for the Mississippi.
And meantime other parties had had better fortune.
In 1673 Joliet the merchant, and Marquette the priest,crossed the country and reached the banks of the Mississippi.
They went by way of the Great Lakes; and from Green Bay,in canoes, by way of Fox River and the Wisconsin
Marquette hadsolemnly contracted, on the feast of the Immaculate Conception,that if the Virgin would permit him to discover the great river,he would name it Conception, in her honor
He kept his word.
In that day, all explorers traveled with an outfit of priests.
De Soto had twenty-four with him
La Salle had several, also.
The expeditions were often out of meat, and scant of clothes,but they always had the furniture and other requisites for the mass;they were always prepared, as one of the quaint chroniclers of the timephrased it, to 'explain hell to the salvages.'
On the 17th of June, 1673, the canoes of Joliet and Marquette and their fivesubordinates reached the junction of the Wisconsin with the Mississippi.
Mr Parkman says:  'Before them a wide and rapid current coursed athwarttheir way, by the foot of lofty heights wrapped thick in forests.'
He continues:  'Turning southward, they paddled down the stream, through asolitude unrelieved by the faintest trace of man.'
A big cat-fish collided with Marquette's canoe, and startled him;and reasonably enough, for he had been warned by the Indians thathe was on a foolhardy journey, and even a fatal one, for the rivercontained a demon 'whose roar could be heard at a great distance,and who would engulf them in the abyss where he dwelt.'
I have seen a Mississippi cat-fish that was more than six feet long,and weighed two hundred and fifty pounds; and if Marquette's fishwas the fellow to that one, he had a fair right to think the river'sroaring demon was come.
'At length the buffalo began to appear, grazing in herds on the great prairieswhich then bordered the river; and Marquette describes the fierce and stupidlook of the old bulls as they stared at the intruders through the tangledmane which nearly blinded them.'
The voyagers moved cautiously:  'Landed at night and made a fireto cook their evening meal; then extinguished it, embarked again,paddled some way farther, and anchored in the stream, keeping a manon the watch till morning.'
They did this day after day and night after night;and at the end of two weeks they had not seen a human being.
The river was an awful solitude, then
And it is now, over mostof its stretch.
But at the close of the fortnight they one day came uponthe footprints of men in the mud of the western bank--a RobinsonCrusoe experience which carries an electric shiver with it yet,when one stumbles on it in print
They had been warned that theriver Indians were as ferocious and pitiless as the river demon,and destroyed all comers without waiting for provocation;but no matter, Joliet and Marquette struck into the countryto hunt up the proprietors of the tracks
They found them,by and by, and were hospitably received and well treated--if to be received by an Indian chief who has taken off his last ragin order to appear at his level best is to be received hospitably;and if to be treated abundantly to fish, porridge, and other game,including dog, and have these things forked into one's mouthby the ungloved fingers of Indians is to be well treated.
In the morning the chief and six hundred of his tribesmen escortedthe Frenchmen to the river and bade them a friendly farewell.
On the rocks above the present city of Alton they found somerude and fantastic Indian paintings, which they describe.
A short distance below 'a torrent of yellow mud rushed furiouslyathwart the calm blue current of the Mississippi, boiling and surgingand sweeping in its course logs, branches, and uprooted trees.'
This was the mouth of the Missouri, 'that savage river,'which 'descending from its mad career through a vast unknownof barbarism, poured its turbid floods into the bosom ofits gentle sister.'
By and by they passed the mouth of the Ohio; they passed cane-brakes;they fought mosquitoes; they floated along, day after day,through the deep silence and loneliness of the river, drowsing inthe scant shade of makeshift awnings, and broiling with the heat;they encountered and exchanged civilities with another partyof Indians; and at last they reached the mouth of the Arkansas(about a month out from their starting-point), where a tribeof war-whooping savages swarmed out to meet and murder them;but they appealed to the Virgin for help; so in place of a fightthere was a feast, and plenty of pleasant palaver and fol-de-rol.
They had proved to their satisfaction, that the Mississippi didnot empty into the Gulf of California, or into the Atlantic.
They believed it emptied into the Gulf of Mexico.
They turned back, now, and carried their great news to Canada.
But belief is not proof
It was reserved for La Salle to furnish the proof.
He was provokingly delayed, by one misfortune after another, but at lastgot his expedition under way at the end of the year 1681
In the deadof winter he and Henri de Tonty, son of Lorenzo Tonty, who inventedthe tontine, his lieutenant, started down the Illinois, with a followingof eighteen Indians brought from New England, and twenty-three Frenchmen.
They moved in procession down the surface of the frozen river, on foot,and dragging their canoes after them on sledges.
At Peoria Lake they struck open water, and paddled thenceto the Mississippi and turned their prows southward.
They plowed through the fields of floating ice, past the mouthof the Missouri; past the mouth of the Ohio, by-and-by;'and, gliding by the wastes of bordering swamp, landed onthe 24th of February near the Third Chickasaw Bluffs,'where they halted and built Fort Prudhomme.
'Again,' says Mr Parkman, 'they embarked; and with every stage of theiradventurous progress, the mystery of this vast new world was moreand more unveiled
More and more they entered the realms of spring.
The hazy sunlight, the warm and drowsy air, the tender foliage,the opening flowers, betokened the reviving life of nature.'
Day by day they floated down the great bends, in the shadowof the dense forests, and in time arrived at the mouthof the Arkansas
First, they were greeted by the nativesof this locality as Marquette had before been greeted by them--with the booming of the war drum and the flourish of arms.
The Virgin composed the difficulty in Marquette's case;the pipe of peace did the same office for La Salle
The white manand the red man struck hands and entertained each other duringthree days
Then, to the admiration of the savages, La Salle setup a cross with the arms of France on it, and took possessionof the whole country for the king--the cool fashion of the time--while the priest piously consecrated the robbery with a hymn.
The priest explained the mysteries of the faith 'by signs,'for the saving of the savages; thus compensating them withpossible possessions in Heaven for the certain ones on earthwhich they had just been robbed of
And also, by signs,La Salle drew from these simple children of the forestacknowledgments of fealty to Louis the Putrid, over the water.
Nobody smiled at these colossal ironies.
These performances took place on the site of the future town of Napoleon,Arkansas, and there the first confiscation-cross was raised on the banksof the great river
Marquette's and Joliet's voyage of discoveryended at the same spot--the site of the future town of Napoleon.
When De Soto took his fleeting glimpse of the river, away back in the dimearly days, he took it from that same spot--the site of the future townof Napoleon, Arkansas
Therefore, three out of the four memorableevents connected with the discovery and exploration of the mighty river,occurred, by accident, in one and the same place
It is a mostcurious distinction, when one comes to look at it and think about it.
The voyagers journeyed on, touching here and there; 'passed the sites,since become historic, of Vicksburg and Grand Gulf,'and visited an imposing Indian monarch in the Teche country,whose capital city was a substantial one of sun-baked bricksmixed with straw--better houses than many that exist there now.
The chiefs house contained an audience room forty feet square;and there he received Tonty in State, surrounded by sixty oldmen clothed in white cloaks
There was a temple in the town,with a mud wall about it ornamented with skulls of enemies sacrificedto the sun.
The voyagers visited the Natchez Indians, near the site of the presentcity of that name, where they found a 'religious and political despotism,a privileged class descended from the sun, a temple and a sacred fire.'
It must have been like getting home again; it was home with an advantage,in fact, for it lacked Louis XIV.
A few more days swept swiftly by, and La Salle stood in the shadowof his confiscating cross, at the meeting of the waters from Delaware,and from Itaska, and from the mountain ranges close upon the Pacific, with thewaters of the Gulf of Mexico, his task finished, his prodigy achieved.
The fertile plains of Texas;the vast basin of the Mississippi, from its frozen northernsprings to the sultry borders of the Gulf; from the woody ridgesof the Alleghanies to the bare peaks of the Rocky Mountains--a region of savannas and forests, sun-cracked deserts andgrassy prairies, watered by a thousand rivers, ranged by athousand warlike tribes, passed beneath the scepter of the Sultanof Versailles; and all by virtue of a feeble human voice, inaudible at half a mile.'
But no,the distribution of a population along its banks was as calmand deliberate and time-devouring a process as the discoveryand exploration had been.
Seventy years elapsed, after the exploration, before theriver's borders had a white population worth considering;and nearly fifty more before the river had a commerce.
Between La Salle's opening of the river and the time when itmay be said to have become the vehicle of anything like a regularand active commerce, seven sovereigns had occupied the throneof England, America had become an independent nation, Louis XIV.
and Louis XV
had rotted and died, the French monarchy had gonedown in the red tempest of the revolution, and Napoleon was a namethat was beginning to be talked about
Truly, there were snailsin those days.
The river's earliest commerce was in great barges--keelboats, broadhorns.
They floated and sailed from the upper rivers to New Orleans,changed cargoes there, and were tediously warped and poled backby hand
A voyage down and back sometimes occupied nine months.
In time this commerce increased until it gave employment to hordesof rough and hardy men; rude, uneducated, brave, suffering terrifichardships with sailor-like stoicism; heavy drinkers, coarse frolickersin moral sties like the Natchez-under-the-hill of that day,heavy fighters, reckless fellows, every one, elephantinely jolly,foul-witted, profane; prodigal of their money, bankrupt at the endof the trip, fond of barbaric finery, prodigious braggarts;yet, in the main, honest, trustworthy, faithful to promises and duty,and often picturesquely magnanimous.
By and by the steamboat intruded
Then for fifteen or twenty years,these men continued to run their keelboats down-stream, and the steamersdid all of the upstream business, the keelboatmen selling their boatsin New Orleans, and returning home as deck passengers in the steamers.
But after a while the steamboats so increased in number andin speed that they were able to absorb the entire commerce;and then keelboating died a permanent death
The keelboatmanbecame a deck hand, or a mate, or a pilot on the steamer;and when steamer-berths were not open to him, he took a berthon a Pittsburgh coal-flat, or on a pine-raft constructedin the forests up toward the sources of the Mississippi.
In the heyday of the steamboating prosperity, the river from endto end was flaked with coal-fleets and timber rafts, all managedby hand, and employing hosts of the rough characters whom Ihave been trying to describe
I remember the annual processionsof mighty rafts that used to glide by Hannibal when I was a boy,--an acre or so of white, sweet-smelling boards in each raft,a crew of two dozen men or more, three or four wigwams scatteredabout the raft's vast level space for storm-quarters,--and Iremember the rude ways and the tremendous talk of their big crews,the ex-keelboatmen and their admiringly patterning successors;for we used to swim out a quarter or third of a mile and get onthese rafts and have a ride.
By way of illustrating keelboat talk and manners, and thatnow-departed and hardly-remembered raft-life, I will throw in,in this place, a chapter from a book which I have been working at,by fits and starts, during the past five or six years,and may possibly finish in the course of five or six more.
The book is a story which details some passages in the lifeof an ignorant village boy, Huck Finn, son of the towndrunkard of my time out west, there
He has run away fromhis persecuting father, and from a persecuting good widow whowishes to make a nice, truth-telling, respectable boy of him;and with him a slave of the widow's has also escaped.
They have found a fragment of a lumber raft (it is highwater and dead summer time), and are floating down the riverby night, and hiding in the willows by day,--bound for Cairo,--whence the negro will seek freedom in the heart of the free States.
But in a fog, they pass Cairo without knowing it.
By and by they begin to suspect the truth, and Huck Finn ispersuaded to end the dismal suspense by swimming down to a hugeraft which they have seen in the distance ahead of them,creeping aboard under cover of the darkness, and gatheringthe needed information by eavesdropping:--
But you know a young person can't wait very well when he isimpatient to find a thing out
We talked it over, and by and byJim said it was such a black night, now, that it wouldn't be norisk to swim down to the big raft and crawl aboard and listen--they would talk about Cairo, because they would be calculatingto go ashore there for a spree, maybe, or anyway they wouldsend boats ashore to buy whiskey or fresh meat or something.
Jim had a wonderful level head, for a nigger:  he could most alwaysstart a good plan when you wanted one.
I stood up and shook my rags off and jumped into the river,and struck out for the raft's light
By and by, when I gotdown nearly to her, I eased up and went slow and cautious.
But everything was all right--nobody at the sweeps.
So I swum down along the raft till I was most abreast the campfire in the middle, then I crawled aboard and inched along and gotin amongst some bundles of shingles on the weather side of the fire.
There was thirteen men there--they was the watch on deck of course.
And a mighty rough-looking lot, too
They had a jug, and tin cups,and they kept the jug moving
One man was singing--roaring, you may say;and it wasn't a nice song--for a parlor anyway
He roared throughhis nose, and strung out the last word of every line very long.
When he was done they all fetched a kind of Injun war-whoop, and thenanother was sung

It was kind of poor, and when he wasgoing to start on the next verse one of them said it was the tunethe old cow died on; and another one said, 'Oh, give us a rest.'
And another one told him to take a walk
They made fun of himtill he got mad and jumped up and begun to cuss the crowd,and said he could lame any thief in the lot.

Then he jumped up in the air three times and cracked his heelstogether every time
He flung off a buckskin coat that was all hungwith fringes, and says, 'You lay thar tell the chawin-up's done;'and flung his hat down, which was all over ribbons, and says,'You lay thar tell his sufferin's is over.'

I'm the man they call Sudden Death and General Desolation!
Sired by a hurricane, dam'd by an earthquake, half-brother tothe cholera, nearly related to the small-pox on the mother's side!
Look at me!
I take nineteen alligators and a bar'l of whiskeyfor breakfast when I'm in robust health, and a bushel of rattlesnakesand a dead body when I'm ailing!
I split the everlastingrocks with my glance, and I squench the thunder when I speak!
Whoo-oop!
Stand back and give me room according to my strength!
Blood's my natural drink, and the wails of the dying is music to my ear!

All the time he was getting this off, he was shaking his headand looking fierce, and kind of swelling around in a little circle,tucking up his wrist-bands, and now and then straightening up andbeating his breast with his fist, saying, 'Look at me, gentlemen!'
When he got through, he jumped up and cracked his heels togetherthree times, and let off a roaring 'Whoo-oop!
I'm the bloodiest sonof a wildcat that lives!'
Then the man that had started the row tilted his old slouchhat down over his right eye; then he bent stooping forward,with his back sagged and his south end sticking out far,and his fists a-shoving out and drawing in in front of him,and so went around in a little circle about three times,swelling himself up and breathing hard
Then he straightened,and jumped up and cracked his heels together three times,before he lit again (that made them cheer), and he begun toshout like this--
'Whoo-oop!
bow your neck and spread, for the kingdom of sorrow'sa-coming!
Hold me down to the earth, for I feel my powersa-working!
whoo-oop!
I'm a child of sin, don't let me get a start!
Smoked glass, here, for all!
Don't attempt to look at mewith the naked eye, gentlemen!
When I'm playful I usethe meridians of longitude and parallels of latitude for a seine,and drag the Atlantic Ocean for whales!
I scratch my headwith the lightning, and purr myself to sleep with the thunder!
When I'm cold, I bile the Gulf of Mexico and bathe in it;when I'm hot I fan myself with an equinoctial storm;when I'm thirsty I reach up and suck a cloud dry like a sponge;when I range the earth hungry, famine follows in my tracks!
Whoo-oop!
Bow your neck and spread!
I put my hand on the sun'sface and make it night in the earth; I bite a piece out of the moonand hurry the seasons; I shake myself and crumble the mountains!
Contemplate me through leather--don't use the naked eye!
I'm the man with a petrified heart and biler-iron bowels!
The massacre of isolated communities is the pastime of my idle moments,the destruction of nationalities the serious business of my life!
The boundless vastness of the great American desert is myenclosed property, and I bury my dead on my own premises!'
He jumped up and cracked his heels together three times before he lit(they cheered him again), and as he come down he shouted out:'Whoo-oop!
bow your neck and spread, for the pet child ofcalamity's a-coming!
'
Then the other one went to swelling around and blowing again--the first one--the one they called Bob; next, the Child of Calamity chipped in again,bigger than ever; then they both got at it at the same time, swelling roundand round each other and punching their fists most into each other's faces,and whooping and jawing like Injuns; then Bob called the Child names,and the Child called him names back again:  next, Bob called him a heaprougher names and the Child come back at him with the very worst kindof language; next, Bob knocked the Child's hat off, and the Child picked itup and kicked Bob's ribbony hat about six foot; Bob went and got it and saidnever mind, this warn't going to be the last of this thing, because he wasa man that never forgot and never forgive, and so the Child better look out,for there was a time a-coming, just as sure as he was a living man,that he would have to answer to him with the best blood in his body.
The Child said no man was willinger than he was for that time to come,and he would give Bob fair warning, now, never to cross his path again,for he could never rest till he had waded in his blood, for such washis nature, though he was sparing him now on account of his family,if he had one.
Both of them was edging away in different directions, growling andshaking their heads and going on about what they was going to do;but a little black-whiskered chap skipped up and says--
'Come back here, you couple of chicken-livered cowards,and I'll thrash the two of ye!'
And he done it, too
He snatched them, he jerked them this way and that,he booted them around, he knocked them sprawling faster than they couldget up
Why, it warn't two minutes till they begged like dogs--and howthe other lot did yell and laugh and clap their hands all the way through,and shout 'Sail in, Corpse-Maker!'
'Hi!
at him again, Child of Calamity!'
'Bully for you, little Davy!'
Well, it was a perfect pow-wow for a while.
Bob and the Child had red noses and black eyes when they got through.
Little Davy made them own up that they were sneaks and cowards and not fitto eat with a dog or drink with a nigger; then Bob and the Child shookhands with each other, very solemn, and said they had always respectedeach other and was willing to let bygones be bygones
So then they washedtheir faces in the river; and just then there was a loud order to standby for a crossing, and some of them went forward to man the sweeps there,and the rest went aft to handle the after-sweeps.
I laid still and waited for fifteen minutes, and had a smoke out of a pipethat one of them left in reach; then the crossing was finished, and theystumped back and had a drink around and went to talking and singing again.
Next they got out an old fiddle, and one played and another patted juba,and the rest turned themselves loose on a regular old-fashioned keel-boatbreak-down
They couldn't keep that up very long without getting winded,so by and by they settled around the jug again.
They sung 'jolly, jolly raftman's the life for me,' with amusing chorus, and then they got to talking about differencesbetwixt hogs, and their different kind of habits; and next aboutwomen and their different ways:  and next about the best waysto put out houses that was afire; and next about what oughtto be done with the Injuns; and next about what a king had to do,and how much he got; and next about how to make cats fight;and next about what to do when a man has fits; and next aboutdifferences betwixt clear-water rivers and muddy-water ones.
The man they called Ed said the muddy Mississippi waterwas wholesomer to drink than the clear water of the Ohio;he said if you let a pint of this yaller Mississippi water settle,you would have about a half to three-quarters of an inchof mud in the bottom, according to the stage of the river,and then it warn't no better than Ohio water--what you wantedto do was to keep it stirred up--and when the river was low,keep mud on hand to put in and thicken the water up the way itought to be.
The Child of Calamity said that was so; he said there was nutritiousnessin the mud, and a man that drunk Mississippi water could grow corn in hisstomach if he wanted to
'You look at the graveyards; that tells the tale
Trees won'tgrow worth chucks in a Cincinnati graveyard, but in a SentLouis graveyard they grow upwards of eight hundred foot high.
It's all on account of the water the people drunk before they laid up.
A Cincinnati corpse don't richen a soil any.'
And they talked about how Ohio water didn't like to mix withMississippi water
Ed said if you take the Mississippi on a risewhen the Ohio is low, you'll find a wide band of clear water all the waydown the east side of the Mississippi for a hundred mile or more,and the minute you get out a quarter of a mile from shore and passthe line, it is all thick and yaller the rest of the way across.
Then they talked about how to keep tobacco from getting moldy,and from that they went into ghosts and told about a lot that otherfolks had seen; but Ed says--
'Why don't you tell something that you've seen yourselves?
Now let me have a say
Five years ago I was on a raft as bigas this, and right along here it was a bright moonshiny night,and I was on watch and boss of the stabboard oar forrard, and oneof my pards was a man named Dick Allbright, and he come alongto where I was sitting, forrard--gaping and stretching, he was--and stooped down on the edge of the raft and washed his facein the river, and come and set down by me and got out his pipe,and had just got it filled, when he looks up and says--
Well, he raised up two or three times, and looked away offand around on the water
That started me at it, too
A body isalways doing what he sees somebody else doing, though there mayn'tbe no sense in it
Pretty soon I see a black something floatingon the water away off to stabboard and quartering behind us.
I see he was looking at it, too

The thing gained and gained,and I judged it must be a dog that was about tired out.
Well, we swung down into the crossing, and the thing floatedacross the bright streak of the moonshine, and, by George,it was bar'l
It floated right along abreast,now, and didn't gain any more
It was about twenty foot off.
Some was for having it aboard, but the rest didn't want to.
Dick Allbright said rafts that had fooled with it had got bad luckby it
The captain of the watch said he didn't believe in it.
He said he reckoned the bar'l gained on us because it was in a littlebetter current than what we was
He said it would leave by and by.
'So then we went to talking about other things, and we had a song,and then a breakdown; and after that the captain of the watch calledfor another song; but it was clouding up, now, and the bar'l stuck rightthar in the same place, and the song didn't seem to have much warm-upto it, somehow, and so they didn't finish it, and there warn't any cheers,but it sort of dropped flat, and nobody said anything for a minute.
Then everybody tried to talk at once, and one chap got off a joke,but it warn't no use, they didn't laugh, and even the chapthat made the joke didn't laugh at it, which ain't usual.
We all just settled down glum, and watched the bar'l, and was oneasyand oncomfortable
Well, sir, it shut down black and still,and then the wind begin to moan around, and next the lightning beginto play and the thunder to grumble
And pretty soon there wasa regular storm, and in the middle of it a man that was running aftstumbled and fell and sprained his ankle so that he had to lay up.
This made the boys shake their heads
And every time the lightning come,there was that bar'l with the blue lights winking around it.
We was always on the look-out for it
But by and by, towards dawn,she was gone
When the day come we couldn't see her anywhere, and wewarn't sorry, neither.
But next night about half-past nine, when there was songs and highjinks going on, here she comes again, and took her old roost on thestabboard side
There warn't no more high jinks
Everybody got solemn;nobody talked; you couldn't get anybody to do anything but setaround moody and look at the bar'l
It begun to cloud up again.
When the watch changed, the off watch stayed up, 'stead of turning in.
The storm ripped and roared around all night, and in the middle of itanother man tripped and sprained his ankle, and had to knock off.
The bar'l left towards day, and nobody see it go.
Everybody was sober and down in the mouth all day
I don't meanthe kind of sober that comes of leaving liquor alone--not that.
They was quiet, but they all drunk more than usual--not together--but each man sidled off and took it private, by himself.
After dark the off watch didn't turn in; nobody sung,nobody talked; the boys didn't scatter around, neither; they sortof huddled together, forrard; and for two hours they set there,perfectly still, looking steady in the one direction, and heavinga sigh once in a while
And then, here comes the bar'l again.
She took up her old place
She staid there all night;nobody turned in
The storm come on again, after midnight.
It got awful dark; the rain poured down; hail, too; the thunderboomed and roared and bellowed; the wind blowed a hurricane;and the lightning spread over everything in big sheets of glare,and showed the whole raft as plain as day; and the riverlashed up white as milk as far as you could see for miles,and there was that bar'l jiggering along, same as ever.
The captain ordered the watch to man the after sweeps for a crossing,and nobody would go--no more sprained ankles for them, they said.
They wouldn't even walk aft
Well then, just then the sky splitwide open, with a crash, and the lightning killed two men of theafter watch, and crippled two more
Crippled them how, says you?
Why, sprained their ankles
'The bar'l left in the dark betwixt lightnings, towards dawn.
Well, not a body eat a bite at breakfast that morning.
After that the men loafed around, in twos and threes, and talkedlow together
But none of them herded with Dick Allbright.
They all give him the cold shake
If he come aroundwhere any of the men was, they split up and sidled away.
They wouldn't man the sweeps with him
The captain had allthe skiffs hauled up on the raft, alongside of his wigwam,and wouldn't let the dead men be took ashore to be planted;he didn't believe a man that got ashore would come back;and he was right.
'After night come, you could see pretty plain that there was going to betrouble if that bar'l come again; there was such a muttering going on.
A good many wanted to kill Dick Allbright, because he'd seen the bar'lon other trips, and that had an ugly look
Some wanted to put him ashore.
Some said, let's all go ashore in a pile, if the bar'l comes again.
This kind of whispers was still going on, the men being bunchedtogether forrard watching for the bar'l, when, lo and behold you,here she comes again
Down she comes, slow and steady,and settles into her old tracks
You could a heard a pin drop.
Then up comes the captain, and says:--
Burn it up,--that's the way
I'm going to fetch it aboard," he says.
And before anybody could say a word, in he went.
He swum to it, and as he come pushing it to the raft, the men spreadto one side
But the old man got it aboard and busted in the head,and there was a baby in it!
Yes, sir, a stark naked baby.
It was Dick Allbright's baby; he owned up and said so.
"Yes," he says, a-leaning over it, "yes, it is my ownlamented darling, my poor lost Charles William Allbright deceased,"says he,--for he could curl his tongue around the bulliestwords in the language when he was a mind to, and lay thembefore you without a jint started, anywheres
Yes, he saidhe used to live up at the head of this bend, and one nighthe choked his child, which was crying, not intending tokill it,--which was prob'ly a lie,--and then he was scared,and buried it in a bar'l, before his wife got home, and offhe went, and struck the northern trail and went to rafting;and this was the third year that the bar'l had chased him.
He said the bad luck always begun light, and lasted till four menwas killed, and then the bar'l didn't come any more after that.
He said if the men would stand it one more night,--and was a-going on like that,--but the men had got enough.
They started to get out a boat to take him ashore and lynch him,but he grabbed the little child all of a sudden and jumpedoverboard with it hugged up to his breast and shedding tears,and we never see him again in this life, poor old suffering soul,nor Charles William neither.'
'WHO was shedding tears?'
says Bob; 'was it Allbright or the baby?'
Why, Allbright, of course; didn't I tell you the baby was dead.
Been dead three years--how could it cry?'
'Well, never mind how it could cry--how could it KEEP all that time?'
says Davy
'You answer me that.'
'I don't know how it done it,' says Ed
'It done it though--that's all I know about it.'
'Say--what did they do with the bar'l?'
says the Child of Calamity.
'Why, they hove it overboard, and it sunk like a chunk of lead.'
'Edward, did the child look like it was choked?'
says one.
'Did it have its hair parted?'
says another.
'What was the brand on that bar'l, Eddy?'
says a fellow they called Bill.
'Have you got the papers for them statistics, Edmund?'
says Jimmy.
'Say, Edwin, was you one of the men that was killed by the lightning.'
says Davy.
'Him?
O, no, he was both of 'em,' says Bob
Then they all haw-hawed.
'Say, Edward, don't you reckon you'd better take a pill?
You look bad--don't you feel pale?'
says the Child of Calamity.
'O, come, now, Eddy,' says Jimmy, 'show up; you must a kept part of that bar'lto prove the thing by
Show us the bunghole--do--and we'll all believe you.'
'Say, boys,' says Bill, 'less divide it up
Thar's thirteen of us.
I can swaller a thirteenth of the yarn, if you can worry down the rest.'
Ed got up mad and said they could all go to some place which he rippedout pretty savage, and then walked off aft cussing to himself,and they yelling and jeering at him, and roaring and laughing so youcould hear them a mile.
'Boys, we'll split a watermelon on that,' says the Child of Calamity;and he come rummaging around in the dark amongst the shingle bundleswhere I was, and put his hand on me
I was warm and soft and naked;so he says 'Ouch!'
and jumped back.
'Fetch a lantern or a chunk of fire here, boys--there's a snakehere as big as a cow!'
So they run there with a lantern and crowded up and looked in on me.
'Come out of that, you beggar!'
says one.
'Who are you?'
says another.
'What are you after here?
Speak up prompt, or overboard you go.
'Snake him out, boys
Snatch him out by the heels.'
I began to beg, and crept out amongst them trembling.
They looked me over, wondering, and the Child of Calamity says--
'A cussed thief!
Lend a hand and less heave him overboard!'
'No,' says Big Bob, 'less get out the paint-pot and paint him a skyblue all over from head to heel, and then heave him over!
'
'Good, that 's it
Go for the paint, Jimmy.'
When the paint come, and Bob took the brush and was just going to begin,the others laughing and rubbing their hands, I begun to cry, and that sortof worked on Davy, and he says--
' 'Vast there!
He 's nothing but a cub
'I'll paint the manthat tetches him!'
So I looked around on them, and some of them grumbled and growled,and Bob put down the paint, and the others didn't take it up.
'Come here to the fire, and less see what you're up to here,'says Davy
'Now set down there and give an account of yourself.
How long have you been aboard here?'
'Not over a quarter of a minute, sir,' says I.
'How did you get dry so quick?'
'I don't know, sir
I'm always that way, mostly.'
'Oh, you are, are you
What's your name?'
I warn't going to tell my name
I didn't know what to say,so I just says--
'Charles William Allbright, sir.'
Then they roared--the whole crowd; and I was mighty glad I said that,because maybe laughing would get them in a better humor.
When they got done laughing, Davy says--
'It won't hardly do, Charles William
You couldn't have growed thismuch in five year, and you was a baby when you come out of the bar'l,you know, and dead at that
Come, now, tell a straight story,and nobody'll hurt you, if you ain't up to anything wrong.
What is your name.

'Aleck Hopkins, sir
Aleck James Hopkins.'
'Well, Aleck, where did you come from, here.

'From a trading scow
She lays up the bend yonder.
I was born on her
Pap has traded up and down here all his life;and he told me to swim off here, because when you went by he saidhe would like to get some of you to speak to a Mr
Jonas Turner,in Cairo, and tell him--'
'Yes, sir; it's as true as the world; Pap he says--'
'Oh, your grandmother!'
They all laughed, and I tried again to talk, hut they broke in on meand stopped me.
'Now, looky-here,' says Davy; 'you're scared, and so you talk wild.
Honest, now, do you live in a scow, or is it a lie?'
'Yes, sir, in a trading scow
She lays up at the head of the bend.
But I warn't born in her
It's our first trip.'
'Now you're talking!
What did you come aboard here, for?
To steal?
No, sir, I didn't.
It was only to get a ride on the raft.
All boys does that.'
Well, I know that
But what did you hide for?
'Sometimes they drive the boys off.'
'So they do
They might steal
Looky-here; if we let you off this time,will you keep out of these kind of scrapes hereafter?'
Deed I will, boss
You try me.
All right, then
You ain't but little ways from shore.
Overboard with you, and don't you make a fool of yourselfanother time this way.
Blast it, boy, some raftsmen wouldrawhide you till you were black and blue!
I didn't wait to kiss good-bye, but went overboard and broke for shore.
When Jim come along by and by, the big raft was away out of sight aroundthe point
I swum out and got aboard, and was mighty glad to see home again.
The boy did not get the information he was after, but his adventurehas furnished the glimpse of the departed raftsman and keelboatmanwhich I desire to offer in this place.
I now come to a phase of the Mississippi River life of the flushtimes of steamboating, which seems to me to warrant full examination--the marvelous science of piloting, as displayed there.
I believe there has been nothing like it elsewhere in the world.
The Boys' Ambition
That was, to be a steamboatman.
We had transient ambitions of other sorts, but they were only transient.
When a circus came and went, it left us all burning to become clowns;the first negro minstrel show that came to our section left usall suffering to try that kind of life; now and then we had a hopethat if we lived and were good, God would permit us to be pirates.
These ambitions faded out, each in its turn; but the ambition to be asteamboatman always remained.
Once a day a cheap, gaudy packet arrived upward from St
Louis,and another downward from Keokuk
Before these events, the daywas glorious with expectancy; after them, the day was a dead andempty thing
Not only the boys, but the whole village, felt this.
After all these years I can picture that old time to myself now,just as it was then:  the white town drowsing in the sunshineof a summer's morning; the streets empty, or pretty nearly so;one or two clerks sitting in front of the Water Street stores,with their splint-bottomed chairs tilted back against the wall,chins on breasts, hats slouched over their faces, asleep--with shingle-shavings enough around to show what broke them down;a sow and a litter of pigs loafing along the sidewalk,doing a good business in watermelon rinds and seeds; two orthree lonely little freight piles scattered about the 'levee;'a pile of 'skids' on the slope of the stone-paved wharf,and the fragrant town drunkard asleep in the shadow of them;two or three wood flats at the head of the wharf, but nobodyto listen to the peaceful lapping of the wavelets against them;the great Mississippi, the majestic, the magnificent Mississippi,rolling its mile-wide tide along, shining in the sun; the denseforest away on the other side; the 'point' above the town,and the 'point' below, bounding the river-glimpse and turningit into a sort of sea, and withal a very still and brilliantand lonely one
Presently a film of dark smoke appears aboveone of those remote 'points;' instantly a negro drayman,famous for his quick eye and prodigious voice, lifts upthe cry, 'S-t-e-a-m-boat a-comin'!'
and the scene changes!
The town drunkard stirs, the clerks wake up, a furiousclatter of drays follows, every house and store poursout a human contribution, and all in a twinkling the deadtown is alive and moving
Drays, carts, men, boys, all gohurrying from many quarters to a common center, the wharf.
Assembled there, the people fasten their eyes upon the comingboat as upon a wonder they are seeing for the first time.
And the boat IS rather a handsome sight, too
She is long and sharpand trim and pretty; she has two tall, fancy-topped chimneys,with a gilded device of some kind swung between them;a fanciful pilot-house, a glass and 'gingerbread', perched on topof the 'texas' deck behind them; the paddle-boxes are gorgeouswith a picture or with gilded rays above the boat's name;the boiler deck, the hurricane deck, and the texas deckare fenced and ornamented with clean white railings;there is a flag gallantly flying from the jack-staff;the furnace doors are open and the fires glaring bravely;the upper decks are black with passengers; the captain standsby the big bell, calm, imposing, the envy of all; great volumesof the blackest smoke are rolling and tumbling out of the chimneys--a husbanded grandeur created with a bit of pitch pine just beforearriving at a town; the crew are grouped on the forecastle;the broad stage is run far out over the port bow, and an envieddeckhand stands picturesquely on the end of it with a coilof rope in his hand; the pent steam is screaming throughthe gauge-cocks, the captain lifts his hand, a bell rings,the wheels stop; then they turn back, churning the water to foam,and the steamer is at rest
Then such a scramble as thereis to get aboard, and to get ashore, and to take in freightand to discharge freight, all at one and the same time;and such a yelling and cursing as the mates facilitate it all with!
Ten minutes later the steamer is under way again, with no flagon the jack-staff and no black smoke issuing from the chimneys.
After ten more minutes the town is dead again, and the towndrunkard asleep by the skids once more.
My father was a justice of the peace, and I supposed he possessedthe power of life and death over all men and could hang anybody thatoffended him
This was distinction enough for me as a general thing;but the desire to be a steamboatman kept intruding, nevertheless.
I first wanted to be a cabin-boy, so that I could come out with a whiteapron on and shake a tablecloth over the side, where all my old comradescould see me; later I thought I would rather be the deckhand who stoodon the end of the stage-plank with the coil of rope in his hand,because he was particularly conspicuous
But these were only day-dreams,--they were too heavenly to be contemplated as real possibilities.
By and by one of our boys went away
He was not heard of for a long time.
At last he turned up as apprentice engineer or 'striker' on a steamboat.
This thing shook the bottom out of all my Sunday-school teachings.
That boy had been notoriously worldly, and I just the reverse;yet he was exalted to this eminence, and I left in obscurity and misery.
There was nothing generous about this fellow in his greatness.
He would always manage to have a rusty bolt to scrub while his boattarried at our town, and he would sit on the inside guard andscrub it, where we could all see him and envy him and loathe him.
And whenever his boat was laid up he would come home and swell aroundthe town in his blackest and greasiest clothes, so that nobody couldhelp remembering that he was a steamboatman; and he used all sortsof steamboat technicalities in his talk, as if he were so usedto them that he forgot common people could not understand them.
He would speak of the 'labboard' side of a horse in an easy, natural waythat would make one wish he was dead
And he was always talking about'St
Looy' like an old citizen; he would refer casually to occasionswhen he 'was coming down Fourth Street,' or when he was 'passingby the Planter's House,' or when there was a fire and he took a turnon the brakes of 'the old Big Missouri;' and then he would go on and lieabout how many towns the size of ours were burned down there that day.
Two or three of the boys had long been persons of consideration amongus because they had been to St
Louis once and had a vague generalknowledge of its wonders, but the day of their glory was over now.
They lapsed into a humble silence, and learned to disappear when the ruthless'cub'-engineer approached
This fellow had money, too, and hair oil.
Also an ignorant silver watch and a showy brass watch chain.
He wore a leather belt and used no suspenders
If ever a youthwas cordially admired and hated by his comrades, this one was.
No girl could withstand his charms
He 'cut out' every boy in the village.
When his boat blew up at last, it diffused a tranquil contentmentamong us such as we had not known for months
But when he camehome the next week, alive, renowned, and appeared in church allbattered up and bandaged, a shining hero, stared at and wonderedover by everybody, it seemed to us that the partiality of Providencefor an undeserving reptile had reached a point where it was open tocriticism.
This creature's career could produce but one result, and itspeedily followed
Boy after boy managed to get on the river.
The minister's son became an engineer
The doctor's and thepost-master's sons became 'mud clerks;' the wholesale liquordealer's son became a barkeeper on a boat; four sons of thechief merchant, and two sons of the county judge, became pilots.
Pilot was the grandest position of all
The pilot, even in those daysof trivial wages, had a princely salary--from a hundred and fiftyto two hundred and fifty dollars a month, and no board to pay.
Two months of his wages would pay a preacher's salary for a year.
Now some of us were left disconsolate
We could not get on the river--at least our parents would not let us.
So by and by I ran away
I said I never would come home again till Iwas a plot and could come in glory
But somehow I could not manage it.
I went meekly aboard a few of the boats that lay packed together like sardinesat the long St
Louis wharf, and very humbly inquired for the pilots,but got only a cold shoulder and short words from mates and clerks.
I had to make the best of this sort of treatment for the time being,but I had comforting daydreams of a future when I should be a great andhonored pilot, with plenty of money, and could kill some of these matesand clerks and pay for them.
I Want to be a Cub-pilot
MONTHS afterward the hope within me struggled to a reluctant death,and I found myself without an ambition
But I was ashamed to go home.
I was in Cincinnati, and I set to work to map out a new career.
I had been reading about the recent exploration of the river Amazonby an expedition sent out by our government
It was said thatthe expedition, owing to difficulties, had not thoroughly explored a partof the country lying about the head-waters, some four thousand milesfrom the mouth of the river
It was only about fifteen hundred milesfrom Cincinnati to New Orleans, where I could doubtless get a ship.
I had thirty dollars left; I would go and complete the explorationof the Amazon
This was all the thought I gave to the subject.
I never was great in matters of detail
I packed my valise, and tookpassage on an ancient tub called the 'Paul Jones,' for New Orleans.
For the sum of sixteen dollars I had the scarred and tarnished splendorsof 'her' main saloon principally to myself, for she was not a creature toattract the eye of wiser travelers.
When we presently got under way and went poking down the broad Ohio,I became a new being, and the subject of my own admiration.
I was a traveler!
A word never had tasted so good in my mouth before.
I had an exultant sense of being bound for mysterious lands and distantclimes which I never have felt in so uplifting a degree since.
I was in such a glorified condition that all ignoble feelings departedout of me, and I was able to look down and pity the untraveledwith a compassion that had hardly a trace of contempt in it.
Still, when we stopped at villages and wood-yards, I could not helplolling carelessly upon the railings of the boiler deck to enjoythe envy of the country boys on the bank
If they did not seemto discover me, I presently sneezed to attract their attention,or moved to a position where they could not help seeing me.
And as soon as I knew they saw me I gaped and stretched, and gave othersigns of being mightily bored with traveling.
I kept my hat off all the time, and stayed where the windand the sun could strike me, because I wanted to getthe bronzed and weather-beaten look of an old traveler.
Before the second day was half gone I experienced a joywhich filled me with the purest gratitude; for I saw thatthe skin had begun to blister and peel off my face and neck.
I wished that the boys and girls at home could see me now.
We reached Louisville in time--at least the neighborhood of it.
We stuck hard and fast on the rocks in the middle of the river,and lay there four days
I was now beginning to feel a strongsense of being a part of the boat's family, a sort of infantson to the captain and younger brother to the officers.
There is no estimating the pride I took in this grandeur,or the affection that began to swell and grow in me forthose people
I could not know how the lordly steamboatmanscorns that sort of presumption in a mere landsman.
I particularly longed to acquire the least trifle of noticefrom the big stormy mate, and I was on the alert for anopportunity to do him a service to that end
It came at last.
The riotous powwow of setting a spar was going on down onthe forecastle, and I went down there and stood around in the way--or mostly skipping out of it--till the mate suddenly roareda general order for somebody to bring him a capstan bar.
I sprang to his side and said:  'Tell me where it is--I'll fetch it!'
If a rag-picker had offered to do a diplomatic service for the Emperorof Russia, the monarch could not have been more astounded than the mate was.
He even stopped swearing
He stood and stared down at me.
It took him ten seconds to scrape his disjointed remains together again.
Then he said impressively:  'Well, if this don't beat hell!'
and turned to his work with the air of a man who had been confrontedwith a problem too abstruse for solution.
I crept away, and courted solitude for the rest of the day.
I did not go to dinner; I stayed away from supper until everybody elsehad finished
I did not feel so much like a member of the boat'sfamily now as before
However, my spirits returned, in installments,as we pursued our way down the river
I was sorry I hated the mate so,because it was not in (young) human nature not to admire him.
He was huge and muscular, his face was bearded and whiskered all over;he had a red woman and a blue woman tattooed on his right arm,--one on each side of a blue anchor with a red rope to it;and in the matter of profanity he was sublime
When he was gettingout cargo at a landing, I was always where I could see and hear.
He felt all the majesty of his great position, and made the worldfeel it, too
When he gave even the simplest order, he dischargedit like a blast of lightning, and sent a long, reverberating pealof profanity thundering after it
I could not help contrastingthe way in which the average landsman would give an order,with the mate's way of doing it
If the landsman should wishthe gang-plank moved a foot farther forward, he would probably say:'James, or William, one of you push that plank forward, please;' but putthe mate in his place and he would roar out:  'Here, now, start thatgang-plank for'ard!
Lively, now!
WHAT're you about!
Snatch it!
SNATCH it!
There!
there!
Aft again!
aft again!
don't you hear me.
Dash it to dash!
are you going to SLEEP over it!
'VAST heaving.'
Vast heaving, I tell you!
Going to heave it clear astern?
WHERE're you going with that barrel!
FOR'ARD with it 'fore I makeyou swallow it, you dash-dash-dash-DASHED split between a tiredmud-turtle and a crippled hearse-horse!'
I wished I could talk like that.
When the soreness of my adventure with the mate had somewhat worn off,I began timidly to make up to the humblest official connectedwith the boat--the night watchman
He snubbed my advancesat first, but I presently ventured to offer him a new chalk pipe;and that softened him
So he allowed me to sit with him by the bigbell on the hurricane deck, and in time he melted into conversation.
He could not well have helped it, I hung with such homage on hiswords and so plainly showed that I felt honored by his notice.
He told me the names of dim capes and shadowy islands as we glidedby them in the solemnity of the night, under the winking stars,and by and by got to talking about himself
He seemedover-sentimental for a man whose salary was six dollars a week--or rather he might have seemed so to an older person than I
ButI drank in his words hungrily, and with a faith that mighthave moved mountains if it had been applied judiciously.
What was it to me that he was soiled and seedy and fragrant with gin.
What was it to me that his grammar was bad, his construction worse,and his profanity so void of art that it was an element of weaknessrather than strength in his conversation?
He was a wronged man,a man who had seen trouble, and that was enough for me.
As he mellowed into his plaintive history his tears drippedupon the lantern in his lap, and I cried, too, from sympathy.
He said he was the son of an English nobleman--either an earlor an alderman, he could not remember which, but believed was both;his father, the nobleman, loved him, but his mother hated himfrom the cradle; and so while he was still a little boy he was sentto 'one of them old, ancient colleges'--he couldn't remember which;and by and by his father died and his mother seized the propertyand 'shook' him as he phrased it
After his mother shook him,members of the nobility with whom he was acquainted used theirinfluence to get him the position of 'loblolly-boy in a ship;'and from that point my watchman threw off all trammels of dateand locality and branched out into a narrative that bristled allalong with incredible adventures; a narrative that was so reekingwith bloodshed and so crammed with hair-breadth escapes and the mostengaging and unconscious personal villainies, that I sat speechless,enjoying, shuddering, wondering, worshipping.
It was a sore blight to find out afterwards that he wasa low, vulgar, ignorant, sentimental, half-witted humbug,an untraveled native of the wilds of Illinois, who hadabsorbed wildcat literature and appropriated its marvels,until in time he had woven odds and ends of the mess intothis yarn, and then gone on telling it to fledglings like me,until he had come to believe it himself.
A Cub-pilot's Experience
WHAT with lying on the rocks four days at Louisville, and someother delays, the poor old 'Paul Jones' fooled away about twoweeks in making the voyage from Cincinnati to New Orleans.
This gave me a chance to get acquainted with one of the pilots,and he taught me how to steer the boat, and thus made the fascinationof river life more potent than ever for me.
It also gave me a chance to get acquainted with a youth who had takendeck passage--more's the pity; for he easily borrowed six dollars of meon a promise to return to the boat and pay it back to me the day afterwe should arrive
But he probably died or forgot, for he never came.
I soon discovered two things
One was that a vessel would not belikely to sail for the mouth of the Amazon under ten or twelve years;and the other was that the nine or ten dollars still leftin my pocket would not suffice for so imposing an explorationas I had planned, even if I could afford to wait for a ship.
Therefore it followed that I must contrive a new career.
The 'Paul Jones' was now bound for St
I planned a siegeagainst my pilot, and at the end of three hard days he surrendered.
He agreed to teach me the Mississippi River from New Orleansto St
Louis for five hundred dollars, payable out of the firstwages I should receive after graduating
I entered upon the smallenterprise of 'learning' twelve or thirteen hundred miles of the greatMississippi River with the easy confidence of my time of life.
If I had really known what I was about to require of my faculties,I should not have had the courage to begin
I supposedthat all a pilot had to do was to keep his boat in the river,and I did not consider that that could be much of a trick,since it was so wide.
The boat backed out from New Orleans at four in the afternoon,and it was 'our watch' until eight
Bixby, my chief,'straightened her up,' plowed her along past the sterns of the otherboats that lay at the Levee, and then said, 'Here, take her;shave those steamships as close as you'd peel an apple.'
I took the wheel, and my heart-beat fluttered up intothe hundreds; for it seemed to me that we were about to scrapethe side off every ship in the line, we were so close.
I held my breath and began to claw the boat away from the danger;and I had my own opinion of the pilot who had known no betterthan to get us into such peril, but I was too wise to express it.
In half a minute I had a wide margin of safety interveningbetween the 'Paul Jones' and the ships; and within ten secondsmore I was set aside in disgrace, and Mr
Bixby was going intodanger again and flaying me alive with abuse of my cowardice.
I was stung, but I was obliged to admire the easy confidence withwhich my chief loafed from side to side of his wheel, and trimmedthe ships so closely that disaster seemed ceaselessly imminent.
When he had cooled a little he told me that the easy waterwas close ashore and the current outside, and therefore we musthug the bank, up-stream, to get the benefit of the former,and stay well out, down-stream, to take advantage of the latter.
In my own mind I resolved to be a down-stream pilot and leavethe up-streaming to people dead to prudence.
It was pleasantenough information, but I could not see the bearing of it.
I was not conscious that it was a matter of any interest to me.
Another time he said, 'This is Nine-Mile Point.'
Later he said, 'This is Twelve-Mile Point.'
They wereall about level with the water's edge; they all lookedabout alike to me; they were monotonously unpicturesque.
I hoped Mr Bixby would change the subject
But no; he wouldcrowd up around a point, hugging the shore with affection,and then say:  'The slack water ends here, abreast this bunchof China-trees; now we cross over.'
So he crossed over.
He gave me the wheel once or twice, but I had no luck.
I either came near chipping off the edge of a sugar plantation,or I yawed too far from shore, and so dropped back into disgrace againand got abused.
The watch was ended at last, and we took supper and went to bed.
I could not understand this extraordinary procedure;so I presently gave up trying to, and dozed off to sleep.
Pretty soon the watchman was back again, and this time he was gruff.
I was annoyed
'What do you want to come bothering around here in the middle ofthe night for
Now as like as not I'll not get to sleep again to-night.'
He's delicate, likely.
Give him some sugar in a rag and send for the chambermaid to singrock-a-by-baby to him.'
About this time Mr Bixby appeared on the scene.
Here was something fresh--this thing of getting up in the middle of the night to go to work.
It was a detail in piloting that had never occurred to me at all.
I knew that boats ran all night, but somehow I had never happenedto reflect that somebody had to get up out of a warm bed to run them.
I began to fear that piloting was not quite so romantic as Ihad imagined it was; there was something very real and work-likeabout this new phase of it.
It was a rather dingy night, although a fair number of stars were out.
The big mate was at the wheel, and he had the old tub pointed ata star and was holding her straight up the middle of the river.
The shores on either hand were not much more than half a mile apart,but they seemed wonderfully far away and ever so vague and indistinct.
The mate said:--
'We've got to land at Jones's plantation, sir.'
The vengeful spirit in me exulted
The stumps there are out of water at this stage:It's no great distance to the lower, and you'll have to getalong with that.'
All right, sir
If Jones don't like it he'll have to lump it,I reckon.'
And then the mate left
My exultation began to cool and my wonderto come up
Here was a man who not only proposed to find thisplantation on such a night, but to find either end of it you preferred.
I dreadfully wanted to ask a question, but I was carrying about as manyshort answers as my cargo-room would admit of, so I held my peace.
All I desired to ask Mr
Bixby was the simple question whether he wasass enough to really imagine he was going to find that plantation ona night when all plantations were exactly alike and all the same color.
But I held in
I used to have fine inspirations of prudencein those days.
Bixby made for the shore and soon was scraping it, just the same as if ithad been daylight
And not only that, but singing--
'Father in heaven, the day is declining,' etc.
It seemed to me that I had put my life in the keeping of a peculiarlyreckless outcast
Presently he turned on me and said:--
'What's the name of the first point above New Orleans?'
I was gratified to be able to answer promptly, and I did.
I said I didn't know.
This manner jolted me
I was down at the foot again, in a moment.
But I had to say just what I had said before.
'Well, you're a smart one,' said Mr
'What's the nameof the NEXT point?'
Once more I didn't know.
'Well, this beats anything
Tell me the name of ANY point or placeI told you.'
I studied a while and decided that I couldn't.
'Look here!
What do you start out from, above Twelve-Mile Point,to cross over?'
'I--I-- don't know.'
'You--you--don't know?'
mimicking my drawling manner of speech.'
What DO you know?'
'I--I-- nothing, for certain.'
'By the great Caesar's ghost, I believe you!
You're the stupidestdunderhead I ever saw or ever heard of, so help me Moses!
The idea of you being a pilot--you!
Why, you don't know enoughto pilot a cow down a lane.'
Oh, but his wrath was up!
He was a nervous man, and he shuffledfrom one side of his wheel to the other as if the floor was hot.
He would boil a while to himself, and then overflow and scald me again.
'Look here!
What do you suppose I told you the names of those points for?'
I tremblingly considered a moment, and then the devil of temptationprovoked me to say:--
'Well--to--to--be entertaining, I thought.'
This was a red rag to the bull
He raged and stormed so (he wascrossing the river at the time) that I judge it made him blind,because he ran over the steering-oar of a trading-scow
Ofcourse the traders sent up a volley of red-hot profanity.
Never was a man so grateful as Mr
Bixby was:because he was brim full, and here were subjects who wouldTALK BACK
He threw open a window, thrust his head out,and such an irruption followed as I never had heard before.
The fainter and farther away the scowmen's curses drifted,the higher Mr
Bixby lifted his voice and the weightier hisadjectives grew
When he closed the window he was empty.
You could have drawn a seine through his system and not caught cursesenough to disturb your mother with
There's only one wayto be a pilot, and that is to get this entire river by heart.
You have to know it just like A B C.'
That was a dismal revelation to me; for my memory was neverloaded with anything but blank cartridges
However, I didnot feel discouraged long
I judged that it was best to makesome allowances, for doubtless Mr
Bixby was 'stretching.'
Presently he pulled a rope and struck a few strokes on the big bell.
The stars were all gone now, and the night was as black as ink.
I could hear the wheels churn along the bank, but I was not entirelycertain that I could see the shore
The voice of the invisiblewatchman called up from the hurricane deck--
'What's this, sir?'
I said to myself, I wish I might venture to offer a small betthat it isn't
But I did not chirp
I only waited to see.
Bixby handled the engine bells, and in due time the boat'snose came to the land, a torch glowed from the forecastle,a man skipped ashore, a darky's voice on the bank said,'Gimme de k'yarpet-bag, Mars' Jones,' and the next moment wewere standing up the river again, all serene
I reflecteddeeply awhile, and then said--but not aloud--'Well, the findingof that plantation was the luckiest accident that ever happened;but it couldn't happen again in a hundred years.'
And I fullybelieved it was an accident, too.
By the time we had gone seven or eight hundred miles up the river,I had learned to be a tolerably plucky up-stream steersman,in daylight, and before we reached St
Louis I had madea trifle of progress in night-work, but only a trifle.
It made my heart ache to think I had only got half of the riverset down; for as our watch was four hours off and four hours on,day and night, there was a long four-hour gap in my book for everytime I had slept since the voyage began.
My chief was presently hired to go on a big New Orleans boat, and I packedmy satchel and went with him
She was a grand affair
When I stoodin her pilot-house I was so far above the water that I seemed perched ona mountain; and her decks stretched so far away, fore and aft, below me,that I wondered how I could ever have considered the little 'Paul Jones'a large craft
There were other differences, too
The 'Paul Jones's'pilot-house was a cheap, dingy, battered rattle-trap, cramped for room:but here was a sumptuous glass temple; room enough to have a dance in;showy red and gold window-curtains; an imposing sofa; leather cushionsand a back to the high bench where visiting pilots sit, to spin yarnsand 'look at the river;' bright, fanciful 'cuspadores' instead of abroad wooden box filled with sawdust; nice new oil-cloth on the floor;a hospitable big stove for winter; a wheel as high as my head,costly with inlaid work; a wire tiller-rope; bright brass knobsfor the bells; and a tidy, white-aproned, black 'texas-tender,' tobring up tarts and ices and coffee during mid-watch, day and night.
Now this was 'something like,' and so I began to take heart once moreto believe that piloting was a romantic sort of occupation after all.
The moment we were under way I began to prowl about the great steamerand fill myself with joy
She was as clean and as dainty as a drawing-room;when I looked down her long, gilded saloon, it was like gazing througha splendid tunnel; she had an oil-picture, by some gifted sign-painter,on every stateroom door; she glittered with no end of prism-fringedchandeliers; the clerk's office was elegant, the bar was marvelous,and the bar-keeper had been barbered and upholstered at incredible cost.
The fires were fiercely glaringfrom a long row of furnaces, and over them were eight huge boilers!
This was unutterable pomp
The mighty engines--but enough of this.
I had never felt so fine before
And when I found that the regimentof natty servants respectfully 'sir'd' me, my satisfaction was complete.
A Daring Deed
Louis was gone and I was lost.
Here was a piece of river which was all down in my book,but I could make neither head nor tail of it:  you understand,it was turned around
I had seen it when coming up-stream, but Ihad never faced about to see how it looked when it was behind me.
My heart broke again, for it was plain that I had got to learn thistroublesome river BOTH WAYS.
The pilot-house was full of pilots, going down to 'look at the river.'
What is called the 'upper river' (the two hundred miles between St
Louisand Cairo, where the Ohio comes in) was low; and the Mississippi changesits channel so constantly that the pilots used to always find itnecessary to run down to Cairo to take a fresh look, when their boatswere to lie in port a week; that is, when the water was at a low stage.
A deal of this 'looking at the river' was done by poor fellows who seldomhad a berth, and whose only hope of getting one lay in their beingalways freshly posted and therefore ready to drop into the shoesof some reputable pilot, for a single trip, on account of such pilot'ssudden illness, or some other necessity
And a good many of themconstantly ran up and down inspecting the river, not because they everreally hoped to get a berth, but because (they being guests of the boat)it was cheaper to 'look at the river' than stay ashore and pay board.
In time these fellows grew dainty in their tastes, and only infestedboats that had an established reputation for setting good tables.
All visiting pilots were useful, for they were always ready and willing,winter or summer, night or day, to go out in the yawl and help buoythe channel or assist the boat's pilots in any way they could.
They were likewise welcome because all pilots are tireless talkers,when gathered together, and as they talk only about the river theyare always understood and are always interesting
Your true pilotcares nothing about anything on earth but the river, and his pridein his occupation surpasses the pride of kings.
We had a fine company of these river-inspectors along, this trip.
There were eight or ten; and there was abundance of room for them in ourgreat pilot-house
Two or three of them wore polished silk hats, elaborateshirt-fronts, diamond breast-pins, kid gloves, and patent-leather boots.
They were choice in their English, and bore themselves with a dignityproper to men of solid means and prodigious reputation as pilots.
The others were more or less loosely clad, and wore upon their heads tallfelt cones that were suggestive of the days of the Commonwealth.
I was a cipher in this august company, and felt subdued, not to say torpid.
I was not even of sufficient consequence to assist at the wheel when itwas necessary to put the tiller hard down in a hurry; the guest that stoodnearest did that when occasion required--and this was pretty much allthe time, because of the crookedness of the channel and the scant water.
I stood in a corner; and the talk I listened to took the hope all out of me.
One visitor said to another--
'Jim, how did you run Plum Point, coming up?'
'It was in the night, there, and I ran it the way one of the boyson the "Diana" told me; started out about fifty yards abovethe wood pile on the false point, and held on the cabinunder Plum Point till I raised the reef--quarter less twain--then straightened up for the middle bar till I got well abreastthe old one-limbed cotton-wood in the bend, then got my sternon the cotton-wood and head on the low place above the point,and came through a-booming--nine and a half.'
'Yes, but the upper bar 's working down fast.'
'I don't want to find fault with your leadsmen, but that's a good dealof water for Plum Point, it seems to me.'
There was an approving nod all around as this quiet snub dropped onthe boaster and 'settled' him
And so they went on talk-talk talking.
Meantime, the thing that was running in my mind was, 'Now if my earshear aright, I have not only to get the names of all the towns and islandsand bends, and so on, by heart, but I must even get up a warm personalacquaintanceship with every old snag and one-limbed cotton-wood and obscurewood pile that ornaments the banks of this river for twelve hundred miles;and more than that, I must actually know where these things are in the dark,unless these guests are gifted with eyes that can pierce through two milesof solid blackness; I wish the piloting business was in Jericho and I hadnever thought of it.'
Bixby tapped the big bell three times (the signalto land), and the captain emerged from his drawing-roomin the forward end of the texas, and looked up inquiringly.
'We will lay up here all night, captain.'
'Very well, sir.'
That was all
The boat came to shore and was tied up for the night.
It seemed to me a fine thing that the pilot could do as he pleased,without asking so grand a captain's permission
I took my supper and wentimmediately to bed, discouraged by my day's observations and experiences.
My late voyage's note-booking was but a confusion of meaningless names.
It had tangled me all up in a knot every time I had looked at it inthe daytime
I now hoped for respite in sleep; but no, it reveled allthrough my head till sunrise again, a frantic and tireless nightmare.
Next morning I felt pretty rusty and low-spirited
We went booming along,taking a good many chances, for we were anxious to 'get out of the river'(as getting out to Cairo was called) before night should overtake us.
But Mr Bixby's partner, the other pilot, presently grounded the boat,and we lost so much time in getting her off that it was plain thatdarkness would overtake us a good long way above the mouth
This was agreat misfortune, especially to certain of our visiting pilots, whose boatswould have to wait for their return, no matter how long that might be.
It sobered the pilot-house talk a good deal
Coming up-stream, pilots didnot mind low water or any kind of darkness; nothing stopped them but fog.
But down-stream work was different; a boat was too nearly helpless,with a stiff current pushing behind her; so it was not customary to rundown-stream at night in low water.
There seemed to be one small hope, however:  if we could get throughthe intricate and dangerous Hat Island crossing before night, we couldventure the rest, for we would have plainer sailing and better water.
But it would be insanity to attempt Hat Island at night.
So there was a deal of looking at watches all the rest of the day,and a constant ciphering upon the speed we were making; Hat Islandwas the eternal subject; sometimes hope was high and sometimeswe were delayed in a bad crossing, and down it went again.
For hours all hands lay under the burden of this suppressed excitement;it was even communicated to me, and I got to feeling sosolicitous about Hat Island, and under such an awful pressureof responsibility, that I wished I might have five minutes on shoreto draw a good, full, relieving breath, and start over again.
We were standing no regular watches
Each of our pilots ransuch portions of the river as he had run when coming up-stream,because of his greater familiarity with it; but both remained inthe pilot house constantly.
For the next thirty minutes every man heldhis watch in his hand and was restless, silent, and uneasy.
At last somebody said, with a doomful sigh--
'Well, yonder's Hat Island--and we can't make it.'
All the watches closed with a snap, everybody sighedand muttered something about its being 'too bad, too bad--ah, if we could only have got here half an hour sooner!'
and the place was thick with the atmosphere of disappointment.
Some started to go out, but loitered, hearing no bell-tap to land.
The sun dipped behind the horizon, the boat went on.
Inquiring looks passed from one guest to another;and one who had his hand on the door-knob and hadturned it, waited, then presently took away his hand and letthe knob turn back again
We bore steadily down the bend.
More looks were exchanged, and nods of surprised admiration--but no words
Insensibly the men drew together behind Mr
Bixby,as the sky darkened and one or two dim stars came out.
The dead silence and sense of waiting became oppressive.
Bixby pulled the cord, and two deep, mellow notesfrom the big bell floated off on the night
Then a pause,and one more note was struck
The cries of the leadsmen began to rise out of the distance,and were gruffly repeated by the word-passers on the hurricane deck.
Bixby pulled two bell-ropes, and was answered by faintjinglings far below in the engine room, and our speed slackened.
The steam began to whistle through the gauge-cocks
The cries ofthe leadsmen went on--and it is a weird sound, always, in the night.
Every pilot in the lot was watching now, with fixed eyes, and talkingunder his breath
Nobody was calm and easy but Mr
Bixby.
He would put his wheel down and stand on a spoke, and as the steamerswung into her (to me) utterly invisible marks--for we seemed to be inthe midst of a wide and gloomy sea--he would meet and fasten her there.
Out of the murmur of half-audible talk, one caught a coherent sentencenow and then--such as--
'There; she's over the first reef all right!'
After a pause, another subdued voice--
'Her stern's coming down just exactly right, by George!'
'Now she's in the marks; over she goes!'
Somebody else muttered--
'Oh, it was done beautiful--BEAUTIFUL!'
Now the engines were stopped altogether, and we driftedwith the current
Not that I could see the boat drift,for I could not, the stars being all gone by this time.
This drifting was the dismalest work; it held one's heart still.
Presently I discovered a blacker gloom than that which surrounded us.
It was the head of the island
We were closing right down upon it.
We entered its deeper shadow, and so imminent seemed the perilthat I was likely to suffocate; and I had the strongestimpulse to do SOMETHING, anything, to save the vessel.
But still Mr Bixby stood by his wheel, silent, intent as a cat,and all the pilots stood shoulder to shoulder at his back.
'She'll not make it!'
somebody whispered.
The water grew shoaler and shoaler, by the leadsman's cries,till it was down to--
Bixby said warningly through his speaking tube to the engineer--
'Stand by, now!'
'Seven-and-a-half!
Seven feet!
We touched bottom!
Bixby set a lot of bells ringing,shouted through the tube, 'NOW, let her have it--every ounce you've got!'
then to his partner, 'Put her hard down!
snatch her!
snatch her!'
The boat rasped and ground her way through the sand, hung upon the apexof disaster a single tremendous instant, and then over she went!
And such a shout as went up at Mr
Bixby's back never loosened the roof ofa pilot-house before!
There was no more trouble after that
Bixby was a hero that night;and it was some little time, too, before his exploit ceased to be talkedabout by river men.
Fully to realize the marvelous precision required in layingthe great steamer in her marks in that murky waste of water,one should know that not only must she pick her intricateway through snags and blind reefs, and then shave the headof the island so closely as to brush the overhanging foliagewith her stern, but at one place she must pass almost withinarm's reach of a sunken and invisible wreck that would snatchthe hull timbers from under her if she should strike it,and destroy a quarter of a million dollars' worth of steam-boatand cargo in five minutes, and maybe a hundred and fifty humanlives into the bargain.
The last remark I heard that night was a compliment to Mr
Bixby,uttered in soliloquy and with unction by one of our guests
'By the Shadow of Death, but he's a lightning pilot!'
At the end of what seemed a tedious while, I had managed to pack my headfull of islands, towns, bars, 'points,' and bends; and a curiouslyinanimate mass of lumber it was, too
However, inasmuch as Icould shut my eyes and reel off a good long string of these nameswithout leaving out more than ten miles of river in every fifty,I began to feel that I could take a boat down to New Orleans if Icould make her skip those little gaps
But of course my complacencycould hardly get start enough to lift my nose a trifle into the air,before Mr
Bixby would think of something to fetch it down again.
One day he turned on me suddenly with this settler--
'What is the shape of Walnut Bend?'
He might as well have asked me my grandmother's opinion of protoplasm.
I reflected respectfully, and then said I didn't know it had anyparticular shape
My gunpowdery chief went off with a bang, of course,and then went on loading and firing until he was out of adjectives.
I had learned long ago that he only carried just so many roundsof ammunition, and was sure to subside into a very placable andeven remorseful old smooth-bore as soon as they were all gone.
That word 'old' is merely affectionate; he was not more thanthirty-four
By and by he said--
'My boy, you've got to know the SHAPE of the river perfectly.
It is all there is left to steer by on a very dark night.
Everything else is blotted out and gone
But mind you, it hasn'tthe same shape in the night that it has in the day-time.'
'How on earth am I ever going to learn it, then?'
'How do you follow a hall at home in the dark
Because you knowthe shape of it
You can't see it.'
'Do you mean to say that I've got to know all the million trifling variationsof shape in the banks of this interminable river as well as I know the shapeof the front hall at home?'
'On my honor, you've got to know them BETTER than any man everdid know the shapes of the halls in his own house.'
'I wish I was dead!'
'Now I don't want to discourage you, but----'
'Well, pile it on me; I might as well have it now as another time.'
'You see, this has got to be learned; there isn't any gettingaround it
A clear starlight night throws such heavy shadowsthat if you didn't know the shape of a shore perfectly you wouldclaw away from every bunch of timber, because you would takethe black shadow of it for a solid cape; and you see you wouldbe getting scared to death every fifteen minutes by the watch.
You would be fifty yards from shore all the time when youought to be within fifty feet of it
You can't see a snagin one of those shadows, but you know exactly where it is,and the shape of the river tells you when you are coming to it.
Then there's your pitch-dark night; the river is a very differentshape on a pitch-dark night from what it is on a starlight night.
All shores seem to be straight lines, then, and mighty dim ones, too;and you'd RUN them for straight lines only you know better.
You boldly drive your boat right into what seems to be a solid,straight wall (you knowing very well that in reality there isa curve there), and that wall falls back and makes way for you.
Then there's your gray mist
You take a night when there's oneof these grisly, drizzly, gray mists, and then there isn't anyparticular shape to a shore
A gray mist would tangle the headof the oldest man that ever lived
Well, then, different kindsof MOONLIGHT change the shape of the river in different ways.
Oh, don't say any more, please!
Have I got to learn the shape of the riveraccording to all these five hundred thousand different ways?
If I triedto carry all that cargo in my head it would make me stoop-shouldered.
Very well, I'll try it; but after I have learned it can I depend on it.
Will it keep the same form and not go fooling around?'
'Bixby, you'll have to look out for President's Island and allthat country clear away up above he Old Hen and Chickens.
The banks are caving and the shape of the shores changinglike everything
Why, you wouldn't know the point above 40.
You can go up inside the old sycamore-snag, now.
So that question was answered
Here were leagues of shore changing shape.
My spirits were down in the mud again
Two things seemed pretty apparentto me
One was, that in order to be a pilot a man had got to learn more thanany one man ought to be allowed to know; and the other was, that he must learnit all over again in a different way every twenty-four hours.
That night we had the watch until twelve
Now it was an ancient rivercustom for the two pilots to chat a bit when the watch changed.
While the relieving pilot put on his gloves and lit his cigar,his partner, the retiring pilot, would say something like this--
'I judge the upper bar is making down a little at Hale's Point;had quarter twain with the lower lead and mark twain<footnote [Two fathoms.'
Quarter twain' is two-and-a-quarter fathoms, thirteen-and-a-half feet.'
'Met one abreast the head of 21, but she was away over hugging the bar,and I couldn't make her out entirely
I took her for the "Sunny South"--hadn't any skylights forward of the chimneys.'
And so on
I was appalled; it was a villainous night for blackness,we were in a particularly wide and blind part of the river,where there was no shape or substance to anything, and itseemed incredible that Mr
Bixby should have left that poorfellow to kill the boat trying to find out where he was.
But I resolved that I would stand by him any way.
He should find that he was not wholly friendless.
So I stood around, and waited to be asked where we were.
I presently climbed up on the bench;I did not think it was safe to go to sleep while this lunaticwas on watch.
So it was four o'clock and all well--but me; I felt like a skinfulof dry bones and all of them trying to ache at once.
Bixby asked me what I had stayed up there for
'Well, taking you by-and-large, you do seem to be moredifferent kinds of an ass than any creature I ever saw before.
What did you suppose he wanted to know for?'
I said I thought it might be a convenience to him.
Convenience D-nation!
Didn't I tell you that a man's got to know the riverin the night the same as he'd know his own front hall?'
'Well, I can follow the front hall in the dark if I know it IS the front hall;but suppose you set me down in the middle of it in the dark and not tell mewhich hall it is; how am I to know?'
'Well you've GOT to, on the river!'
Why, he'd have slammed you through the window and utterlyruined a hundred dollars' worth of window-sash and stuff.'
I was glad this damage had been saved, for it would have mademe unpopular with the owners
They always hated anybodywho had the name of being careless, and injuring things.
I went to work now to learn the shape of the river; and of all the eludingand ungraspable objects that ever I tried to get mind or hands on,that was the chief
I would fasten my eyes upon a sharp, wooded point thatprojected far into the river some miles ahead of me, and go to laboriouslyphotographing its shape upon my brain; and just as I was beginning tosucceed to my satisfaction, we would draw up toward it and the exasperatingthing would begin to melt away and fold back into the bank!
If therehad been a conspicuous dead tree standing upon the very point of the cape,I would find that tree inconspicuously merged into the general forest,and occupying the middle of a straight shore, when I got abreast of it!
No prominent hill would stick to its shape long enough for me to make upmy mind what its form really was, but it was as dissolving and changefulas if it had been a mountain of butter in the hottest corner of the tropics.
Nothing ever had the same shape when I was coming downstream that it hadborne when I went up
If the shapesdidn't change every three seconds they wouldn't be of any use.
Take this place where we are now, for instance.
As long as that hill over yonder is only one hill, I can boomright along the way I'm going; but the moment it splits atthe top and forms a V, I know I've got to scratch to starboardin a hurry, or I'll bang this boat's brains out against a rock;and then the moment one of the prongs of the V swings behindthe other, I've got to waltz to larboard again, or I'll havea misunderstanding with a snag that would snatch the keelson outof this steamboat as neatly as if it were a sliver in your hand.
If that hill didn't change its shape on bad nights therewould be an awful steamboat grave-yard around here insideof a year.'
It was plain that I had got to learn the shape of the riverin all the different ways that could be thought of,--upside down,wrong end first, inside out, fore-and-aft, and 'thortships,'--and thenknow what to do on gray nights when it hadn't any shape at all.
So I set about it
'How much water did we have in the middle crossing at Hole-in-the-Wall,trip before last?'
I considered this an outrage
'Every trip, down and up, the leadsmen are singing throughthat tangled place for three-quarters of an hour on a stretch.
How do you reckon I can remember such a mess as that?'
'My boy, you've got to remember it
You've got to rememberthe exact spot and the exact marks the boat lay in when we hadthe shoalest water, in everyone of the five hundred shoal placesbetween St
Louis and New Orleans; and you mustn't get the shoalsoundings and marks of one trip mixed up with the shoal soundingsand marks of another, either, for they're not often twice alike.
You must keep them separate.'
I want to retire from this business
I want a slush-bucket and a brush;I'm only fit for a roustabout
I haven't got brains enough to be a pilot;and if I had I wouldn't have strength enough to carry them around,unless I went on crutches.'
And you can depend on it, I'll learn him or kill him.
But the result was just the same
I never could more than getone knotty thing learned before another presented itself.
Now I had often seen pilots gazing at the water and pretending to readit as if it were a book; but it was a book that told me nothing.
'Do you see that long slanting line on the face of the water Now,that's a reef
Moreover, it's a bluff reef
There is a solid sand-barunder it that is nearly as straight up and down as the side of a house.
There is plenty of water close up to it, but mighty little on top of it.
If you were to hit it you would knock the boat's brains out.
Do you see where the line fringes out at the upper end and begins tofade away '
'Well, that is a low place; that is the head of the reef.
You can climb over there, and not hurt anything
Cross over,now, and follow along close under the reef--easy water there--not much current.'
I followed the reef along till I approached the fringed end.
Wait till I give the word
She won't want to mount the reef;a boat hates shoal water
Stand by--wait--WAIT--keep her well in hand.
NOW cramp her down!
Snatch her!
snatch her!
He seized the other side of the wheel and helped to spinit around until it was hard down, and then we held it so.
The boat resisted, and refused to answer for a while, and next shecame surging to starboard, mounted the reef, and sent a long,angry ridge of water foaming away from her bows.
'Now watch her; watch her like a cat, or she'll get away from you.
When she fights strong and the tiller slips a little,in a jerky, greasy sort of way, let up on her a trifle;it is the way she tells you at night that the water is too shoal;but keep edging her up, little by little, toward the point.
You are well up on the bar, now; there is a bar under every point,because the water that comes down around it forms an eddyand allows the sediment to sink
Do you see those fine lineson the face of the water that branch out like the ribs of a fan.
Well, those are little reefs; you want to just miss the endsof them, but run them pretty close
Now look out--look out!
Don't you crowd that slick, greasy-looking place; there ain'tnine feet there; she won't stand it
She begins to smell it;look sharp, I tell you!
Oh blazes, there you go!
Stop the starboard wheel!
Quick!
Ship up to back!
Set her back!
The engine bells jingled and the engines answered promptly,shooting white columns of steam far aloft out of the 'scape pipes,but it was too late
The boat had 'smelt' the bar in good earnest;the foamy ridges that radiated from her bows suddenly disappeared,a great dead swell came rolling forward and swept ahead of her,she careened far over to larboard, and went tearing awaytoward the other shore as if she were about scared to death.
We were a good mile from where we ought to have been, when wefinally got the upper hand of her again.
During the afternoon watch the next day, Mr Bixby asked me if Iknew how to run the next few miles
'Go inside the first snag above the point, outside the next one,start out from the lower end of Higgins's wood-yard, makea square crossing and----'
That's all right
I'll be back before you close up on the next point.
But he wasn't
He was still below when I rounded it and entered upona piece of river which I had some misgivings about
I did not knowthat he was hiding behind a chimney to see how I would perform.
I went gaily along, getting prouder and prouder, for he had neverleft the boat in my sole charge such a length of time before.
I even got to 'setting' her and letting the wheel go, entirely, while Ivaingloriously turned my back and inspected the stem marks and hummed a tune,a sort of easy indifference which I had prodigiously admired in Bixbyand other great pilots
Once I inspected rather long, and when I facedto the front again my heart flew into my mouth so suddenly that if I hadn'tclapped my teeth together I should have lost it
One of those frightfulbluff reefs was stretching its deadly length right across our bows!
My head was gone in a moment; I did not know which end I stood on;I gasped and could not get my breath; I spun the wheel down with suchrapidity that it wove itself together like a spider's web; the boatanswered and turned square away from the reef, but the reef followed her!
I fled, and still it followed, still it kept--right across my bows!
I never looked to see where I was going, I only fled.
The awful crash was imminent--why didn't that villain come!
If I committed the crime of ringing a bell, I might get thrown overboard.
But better that than kill the boat
So in blind desperation I startedsuch a rattling 'shivaree' down below as never had astounded an engineerin this world before, I fancy
Amidst the frenzy of the bells the enginesbegan to back and fill in a furious way, and my reason forsook its throne--we were about to crash into the woods on the other side of the river.
Just then Mr Bixby stepped calmly into view on the hurricane deck.
My soul went out to him in gratitude
My distress vanished; I would havefelt safe on the brink of Niagara, with Mr Bixby on the hurricane deck.
He blandly and sweetly took his tooth-pick out of his mouth betweenhis fingers, as if it were a cigar--we were just in the act of climbingan overhanging big tree, and the passengers were scudding astern like rats--and lifted up these commands to me ever so gently--
Stop the starboard
Stop the larboard
Set her back on both.
The boat hesitated, halted, pressed her nose among the boughsa critical instant, then reluctantly began to back away.
Stop the larboard
Come ahead on it
Stop the starboard.
Come ahead on it
Point her for the bar.
Then it was for wood, I suppose
The officer of the watchwill tell you when he wants to wood up.'
I went on consuming and said I wasn't after wood.
Why, what could you want over here in the bend, then?
Did you ever know of a boat following a bend up-stream at thisstage of the river?'
'No sir,--and I wasn't trying to follow it
I was getting awayfrom a bluff reef.'
'No, it wasn't a bluff reef; there isn't one within three milesof where you were.'
'But I saw it
It was as bluff as that one yonder.
Run over it!
'Do you give it as an order?'
Run over it.
'If I don't, I wish I may die.'
'All right; I am taking the responsibility.'
I was just asanxious to kill the boat, now, as I had been to save her before.
I impressed my orders upon my memory, to be used at the inquest,and made a straight break for the reef
As it disappeared underour bows I held my breath; but we slid over it like oil.
Now don't you see the difference?
It wasn't anything but a WIND reef.
But it is exactly like a bluff reef.
How am I ever going to tell them apart?'
'I can't tell you
It is an instinct
By and by you will just naturallyKNOW one from the other, but you never will be able to explain why or how youknow them apart'
It turned out to be true
The face of the water, in time,became a wonderful book--a book that was a dead language to theuneducated passenger, but which told its mind to me without reserve,delivering its most cherished secrets as clearly as if it utteredthem with a voice
And it was not a book to be read onceand thrown aside, for it had a new story to tell every day.
Throughout the long twelve hundred miles there was never a pagethat was void of interest, never one that you could leaveunread without loss, never one that you would want to skip,thinking you could find higher enjoyment in some other thing.
There never was so wonderful a book written by man; never onewhose interest was so absorbing, so unflagging, so sparkinglyrenewed with every re-perusal
The passenger who could not read itwas charmed with a peculiar sort of faint dimple on its surface(on the rare occasions when he did not overlook it altogether);but to the pilot that was an ITALICIZED passage; indeed, it wasmore than that, it was a legend of the largest capitals,with a string of shouting exclamation points at the end of it;for it meant that a wreck or a rock was buried there that couldtear the life out of the strongest vessel that ever floated.
It is the faintest and simplest expression the water ever makes,and the most hideous to a pilot's eye
In truth, the passengerwho could not read this book saw nothing but all manner of prettypictures in it painted by the sun and shaded by the clouds,whereas to the trained eye these were not pictures at all,but the grimmest and most dead-earnest of reading-matter.
Now when I had mastered the language of this water and had come to knowevery trifling feature that bordered the great river as familiarly as Iknew the letters of the alphabet, I had made a valuable acquisition.
But I had lost something, too
I had lost something which could neverbe restored to me while I lived
All the grace, the beauty, the poetryhad gone out of the majestic river!
I still keep in mind a certainwonderful sunset which I witnessed when steamboating was new to me.
A broad expanse of the river was turned to blood; in the middle distancethe red hue brightened into gold, through which a solitary log came floating,black and conspicuous; in one place a long, slanting mark lay sparkling uponthe water; in another the surface was broken by boiling, tumbling rings,that were as many-tinted as an opal; where the ruddy flush was faintest,was a smooth spot that was covered with graceful circles and radiating lines,ever so delicately traced; the shore on our left was densely wooded,and the somber shadow that fell from this forest was broken in one placeby a long, ruffled trail that shone like silver; and high above the forestwall a clean-stemmed dead tree waved a single leafy bough that glowedlike a flame in the unobstructed splendor that was flowing from the sun.
There were graceful curves, reflected images, woody heights, soft distances;and over the whole scene, far and near, the dissolving lights driftedsteadily, enriching it, every passing moment, with new marvels of coloring.
I stood like one bewitched
I drank it in, in a speechless rapture.
The world was new to me, and I had never seen anything like this at home.
But as I have said, a day came when I began to cease from noting the gloriesand the charms which the moon and the sun and the twilight wrought uponthe river's face; another day came when I ceased altogether to note them.
Then, if that sunset scene had been repeated, I should have looked uponit without rapture, and should have commented upon it, inwardly, afterthis fashion:  This sun means that we are going to have wind to-morrow;that floating log means that the river is rising, small thanks to it;that slanting mark on the water refers to a bluff reef which is goingto kill somebody's steamboat one of these nights, if it keeps on stretchingout like that; those tumbling 'boils' show a dissolving bar and a changingchannel there; the lines and circles in the slick water over yonderare a warning that that troublesome place is shoaling up dangerously;that silver streak in the shadow of the forest is the 'break' from a new snag,and he has located himself in the very best place he could have foundto fish for steamboats; that tall dead tree, with a single living branch,is not going to last long, and then how is a body ever going to get throughthis blind place at night without the friendly old landmark.
No, the romance and the beauty were all gone from the river.
All the value any feature of it had for me now was the amountof usefulness it could furnish toward compassing the safe pilotingof a steamboat
Since those days, I have pitied doctors from my heart.
What does the lovely flush in a beauty's cheek mean to a doctorbut a 'break' that ripples above some deadly disease.
Are not all her visible charms sown thick with what are to himthe signs and symbols of hidden decay?
Does he ever see herbeauty at all, or doesn't he simply view her professionally,and comment upon her unwholesome condition all to himself?
And doesn't he sometimes wonder whether he has gained most or lostmost by learning his trade?
I wish to show, in the most patient and painstaking way, what a wonderfulscience it is
Ship channels are buoyed and lighted, and therefore it isa comparatively easy undertaking to learn to run them; clear-water rivers,with gravel bottoms, change their channels very gradually, and thereforeone needs to learn them but once; but piloting becomes another matterwhen you apply it to vast streams like the Mississippi and the Missouri,whose alluvial banks cave and change constantly, whose snags are alwayshunting up new quarters, whose sand-bars are never at rest, whose channelsare for ever dodging and shirking, and whose obstructions must beconfronted in all nights and all weathers without the aid of a singlelight-house or a single buoy; for there is neither light nor buoy to befound anywhere in all this three or four thousand miles of villainousriver.
If the theme were hackneyed, I should be obliged to deal gently withthe reader; but since it is wholly new, I have felt at liberty to take upa considerable degree of room with it.
When I had learned the name and position of every visiblefeature of the river; when I had so mastered its shape that Icould shut my eyes and trace it from St
Louis to New Orleans;when I had learned to read the face of the water as one wouldcull the news from the morning paper; and finally, when Ihad trained my dull memory to treasure up an endless arrayof soundings and crossing-marks, and keep fast hold of them,I judged that my education was complete:  so I got to tiltingmy cap to the side of my head, and wearing a tooth-pick in mymouth at the wheel
Bixby had his eye on these airs.
One day he said--
'What is the height of that bank yonder, at Burgess's?'
How can I tell, sir
It is three-quarters of a mile away.'
Very poor eye--very poor
Take the glass.'
I took the glass, and presently said--'I can't tell.
I suppose that that bank is about a foot and a half high.'
Foot and a half!
That's a six-foot bank
How high was the bankalong here last trip?'
'I don't know; I never noticed.'
'You didn't?
Well, you must always do it hereafter.'
'Because you'll have to know a good many things that it tells you.
For one thing, it tells you the stage of the river--tells you whetherthere's more water or less in the river along here than therewas last trip.'
'The leads tell me that.'
I rather thought I had the advantageof him there.
'Yes, but suppose the leads lie?
The bank would tell you so,and then you'd stir those leadsmen up a bit
There was a ten-footbank here last trip, and there is only a six-foot bank now.
What does that signify?'
'That the river is four feet higher than it was last trip.'
Is the river rising or falling?'
'No it ain't.'
'I guess I am right, sir
Yonder is some drift-wood floatingdown the stream.'
'A rise starts the drift-wood, but then it keeps on floating a while afterthe river is done rising
Now the bank will tell you about this
Wait tillyou come to a place where it shelves a little
Now here; do you see thisnarrow belt of fine sediment That was deposited while the water was higher.
You see the driftwood begins to strand, too
The bank helps in other ways.
Do you see that stump on the false point?'
'Ay, ay, sir.'
'Well, the water is just up to the roots of it.
You must make a note of that.'
'Because that means that there's seven feet in the chute of 103.'
'But 103 is a long way up the river yet.'
'That's where the benefit of the bank comes in
There is waterenough in 103 NOW, yet there may not be by the time we get there;but the bank will keep us posted all along
You don't run closechutes on a falling river, up-stream, and there are precious fewof them that you are allowed to run at all down-stream
There'sa law of the United States against it
The river may be risingby the time we get to 103, and in that case we'll run it.
We are drawing--how much?'
'Six feet aft,--six and a half forward.'
'Well, you do seem to know something.'
'But what I particularly want to know is, if I have got to keep up aneverlasting measuring of the banks of this river, twelve hundred miles,month in and month out?'
My emotions were too deep for words for a while.
Presently I said--'
And how about these chutes
Are there many of them?'
'I should say so
I fancy we shan't run any of the river this tripas you've ever seen it run before--so to speak
If the river beginsto rise again, we'll go up behind bars that you've always seenstanding out of the river, high and dry like the roof of a house;we'll cut across low places that you've never noticed at all,right through the middle of bars that cover three hundred acres of river;we'll creep through cracks where you've always thought was solid land;we'll dart through the woods and leave twenty-five miles of riveroff to one side; we'll see the hind-side of every island between NewOrleans and Cairo.'
'Then I've got to go to work and learn just as much more riveras I already know.'
'Just about twice as much more, as near as you can come at it.'
'Well, one lives to find out
I think I was a fool when I wentinto this business.'
'Yes, that is true
And you are yet
But you'll not bewhen you've learned it.'
'Ah, I never can learn it.'
'I will see that you DO.'
And you've got to have good fair marks from one endof the river to the other, that will help the bank tell youwhen there is water enough in each of these countless places--like that stump, you know
When the river first beginsto rise, you can run half a dozen of the deepest of them;when it rises a foot more you can run another dozen;the next foot will add a couple of dozen, and so on:so you see you have to know your banks and marks to a deadmoral certainty, and never get them mixed; for when you startthrough one of those cracks, there's no backing out again,as there is in the big river; you've got to go through,or stay there six months if you get caught on a falling river.
There are about fifty of these cracks which you can't run at allexcept when the river is brim full and over the banks.'
'This new lesson is a cheerful prospect.'
And mind what I've just told you; when youstart into one of those places you've got to go through.
They are too narrow to turn around in, too crooked to back out of,and the shoal water is always up at the head; never elsewhere.
And the head of them is always likely to be filling up, little by little,so that the marks you reckon their depth by, this season, may notanswer for next.'
'Learn a new set, then, every year?'
Cramp her up to the bar!
What are you standing upthrough the middle of the river for?'
The next few months showed me strange things
On the same day that we heldthe conversation above narrated, we met a great rise coming down the river.
The whole vast face of the stream was black with drifting dead logs,broken boughs, and great trees that had caved in and been washed away.
It required the nicest steering to pick one's way through thisrushing raft, even in the day-time, when crossing from point to point;and at night the difficulty was mightily increased; every now and thena huge log, lying deep in the water, would suddenly appear rightunder our bows, coming head-on; no use to try to avoid it then;we could only stop the engines, and one wheel would walk over that logfrom one end to the other, keeping up a thundering racket and careeningthe boat in a way that was very uncomfortable to passengers.
Now and then we would hit one of these sunken logs a rattling bang,dead in the center, with a full head of steam, and it would stun the boatas if she had hit a continent
Sometimes this log would lodge, and stayright across our nose, and back the Mississippi up before it; we wouldhave to do a little craw-fishing, then, to get away from the obstruction.
We often hit WHITE logs, in the dark, for we could not see them till wewere right on them; but a black log is a pretty distinct object at night.
A white snag is an ugly customer when the daylight is gone.
Of course, on the great rise, down came a swarm of prodigioustimber-rafts from the head waters of the Mississippi,coal barges from Pittsburgh, little trading scows from everywhere,and broad-horns from 'Posey County,' Indiana, freighted with 'fruitand furniture'--the usual term for describing it, though in plainEnglish the freight thus aggrandized was hoop-poles and pumpkins.
Pilots bore a mortal hatred to these craft; and it was returnedwith usury
The law required all such helpless traders to keepa light burning, but it was a law that was often broken.
All of a sudden, on a murky night, a light would hop up,right under our bows, almost, and an agonized voice,with the backwoods 'whang' to it, would wail out--
'Whar'n the ---- you goin' to!
Cain't you see nothin', you dash-dashedaig-suckin', sheep-stealin', one-eyed son of a stuffed monkey!'
Then for an instant, as we whistled by, the red glare from our furnaceswould reveal the scow and the form of the gesticulating oratoras if under a lightning-flash, and in that instant our firemen anddeck-hands would send and receive a tempest of missiles and profanity,one of our wheels would walk off with the crashing fragmentsof a steering-oar, and down the dead blackness would shut again.
And that flatboatman would be sure to go into New Orleans and sueour boat, swearing stoutly that he had a light burning all the time,when in truth his gang had the lantern down below to sing and lieand drink and gamble by, and no watch on deck
Once, at night, in oneof those forest-bordered crevices (behind an island) which steamboatmenintensely describe with the phrase 'as dark as the inside of a cow,'we should have eaten up a Posey County family, fruit, furniture, and all,but that they happened to be fiddling down below, and we just caughtthe sound of the music in time to sheer off, doing no serious damage,unfortunately, but coming so near it that we had good hopes for a moment.
These people brought up their lantern, then, of course; and as we backedand filled to get away, the precious family stood in the light of it--both sexes and various ages--and cursed us till everything turned blue.
Once a coalboatman sent a bullet through our pilot-house, when we borrowed asteering oar of him in a very narrow place.
We were running chute after chute,--a new world to me,--and if there wasa particularly cramped place in a chute, we would be pretty sure to meeta broad-horn there; and if he failed to be there, we would find him in astill worse locality, namely, the head of the chute, on the shoal water.
And then there would be no end of profane cordialities exchanged.
Sometimes, in the big river, when we would be feeling our waycautiously along through a fog, the deep hush would suddenlybe broken by yells and a clamor of tin pans, and all in instanta log raft would appear vaguely through the webby veil,close upon us; and then we did not wait to swap knives,but snatched our engine bells out by the roots and piledon all the steam we had, to scramble out of the way!
One doesn't hit a rock or a solid log craft with a steamboatwhen he can get excused.
You will hardly believe it, but many steamboat clerks alwayscarried a large assortment of religious tracts with themin those old departed steamboating days
Indeed they did.
Twenty times a day we would be cramping up around a bar,while a string of these small-fry rascals were drifting down intothe head of the bend away above and beyond us a couple of miles.
Now a skiff would dart away from one of them, and come fightingits laborious way across the desert of water
It would 'ease all,'in the shadow of our forecastle, and the panting oarsmen would shout,'Gimme a pa-a-per!'
as the skiff drifted swiftly astern.
The clerk would throw over a file of New Orleans journals.
If these were picked up without comment, you might notice that now a dozenother skiffs had been drifting down upon us without saying anything.
The amount of hard swearing which twelve packages of religious literaturewill command when impartially divided up among twelve raftsmen's crews,who have pulled a heavy skiff two miles on a hot day to get them,is simply incredible.
As I have said, the big rise brought a new world under my vision.
By the time the river was over its banks we had forsaken our old paths andwere hourly climbing over bars that had stood ten feet out of water before;we were shaving stumpy shores, like that at the foot of Madrid Bend, which Ihad always seen avoided before; we were clattering through chutes like thatof 82, where the opening at the foot was an unbroken wall of timber till ournose was almost at the very spot
Some of these chutes were utter solitudes.
The dense, untouched forest overhung both banks of the crooked little crack,and one could believe that human creatures had never intruded there before.
The swinging grape-vines, the grassy nooks and vistas glimpsed as we swept by,the flowering creepers waving their red blossoms from the tops of dead trunks,and all the spendthrift richness of the forest foliage, were wasted and thrownaway there
The chutes were lovely places to steer in; they were deep,except at the head; the current was gentle; under the 'points' the waterwas absolutely dead, and the invisible banks so bluff that where the tenderwillow thickets projected you could bury your boat's broadside in them as youtore along, and then you seemed fairly to fly.
Behind other islands we found wretched little farms, and wretchederlittle log-cabins; there were crazy rail fences sticking a footor two above the water, with one or two jeans-clad, chills-racked,yellow-faced male miserables roosting on the top-rail, elbowson knees, jaws in hands, grinding tobacco and dischargingthe result at floating chips through crevices left by lost teeth;while the rest of the family and the few farm-animals were huddledtogether in an empty wood-flat riding at her moorings close at hand.
In this flat-boat the family would have to cook and eatand sleep for a lesser or greater number of days (or possiblyweeks), until the river should fall two or three feet and letthem get back to their log-cabin and their chills again--chills being a merciful provision of an all-wise Providenceto enable them to take exercise without exertion.
And this sort of watery camping out was a thing which these peoplewere rather liable to be treated to a couple of times a year:by the December rise out of the Ohio, and the June rise outof the Mississippi
And yet these were kindly dispensations,for they at least enabled the poor things to rise from the deadnow and then, and look upon life when a steamboat went by.
They appreciated the blessing, too, for they spread their mouthsand eyes wide open and made the most of these occasions.
Now what could these banished creatures find to do to keep from dyingof the blues during the low-water season!'
Once, in one of these lovely island chutes, we foundour course completely bridged by a great fallen tree.
This will serve to show how narrow some of the chutes were.
The passengers had an hour's recreation in a virgin wilderness,while the boat-hands chopped the bridge away; for there was no suchthing as turning back, you comprehend.
From Cairo to Baton Rouge, when the river is over its banks, you haveno particular trouble in the night, for the thousand-mile wall of denseforest that guards the two banks all the way is only gapped with a farmor wood-yard opening at intervals, and so you can't 'get out of the river'much easier than you could get out of a fenced lane; but from BatonRouge to New Orleans it is a different matter
The river is more thana mile wide, and very deep--as much as two hundred feet, in places.
Both banks, for a good deal over a hundred miles, are shorn of their timberand bordered by continuous sugar plantations, with only here and therea scattering sapling or row of ornamental China-trees
The timber isshorn off clear to the rear of the plantations, from two to four miles.
When the first frost threatens to come, the planters snatch offtheir crops in a hurry
When they have finished grinding the cane,they form the refuse of the stalks (which they call BAGASSE)into great piles and set fire to them, though in other sugar countriesthe bagasse is used for fuel in the furnaces of the sugar mills.
Now the piles of damp bagasse burn slowly, and smoke like Satan's own kitchen.
An embankment ten or fifteen feet high guards both banks of the Mississippiall the way down that lower end of the river, and this embankment is setback from the edge of the shore from ten to perhaps a hundred feet,according to circumstances; say thirty or forty feet, as a general thing.
Fill that whole region with an impenetrable gloom of smoke from a hundredmiles of burning bagasse piles, when the river is over the banks, and turna steamboat loose along there at midnight and see how she will feel.
And see how you will feel, too!
You find yourself away out in the midstof a vague dim sea that is shoreless, that fades out and loses itselfin the murky distances; for you cannot discern the thin rib of embankment,and you are always imagining you see a straggling tree when you don't
Theplantations themselves are transformed by the smoke, and look like a partof the sea
All through your watch you are tortured with the exquisite miseryof uncertainty
You hope you are keeping in the river, but you do not know.
All that you are sure about is that you are likely to be within six feet ofthe bank and destruction, when you think you are a good half-mile from shore.
And you are sure, also, that if you chance suddenly to fetch up againstthe embankment and topple your chimneys overboard, you will have the smallcomfort of knowing that it is about what you were expecting to do.
One of the great Vicksburg packets darted out into a sugar plantationone night, at such a time, and had to stay there a week
But there was nonovelty about it; it had often been done before.
I thought I had finished this chapter, but I wishto add a curious thing, while it is in my mind.
It is only relevant in that it is connected with piloting.
It was said that if his mind wastroubled about a bad piece of river, he was pretty sureto get up and walk in his sleep and do strange things.
Then no light whatever issues from the boat
Let me take her, George; I've seen this place since you have,and it is so crooked that I reckon I can run it myself easierthan I could tell you how to do it.'
'It is kind of you, and I swear I am willing.
I haven't got another drop of perspiration left in me.
I have been spinning around and around the wheel like a squirrel.
It is so dark I can't tell which way she is swinging till she iscoming around like a whirligig.'
So Ealer took a seat on the bench, panting and breathless.
The black phantom assumed the wheel without saying anything,steadied the waltzing steamer with a turn or two, and then stoodat ease, coaxing her a little to this side and then to that,as gently and as sweetly as if the time had been noonday.
When Ealer observed this marvel of steering, he wished he hadnot confessed!
He stared, and wondered, and finally said--'
Well, I thought I knew how to steer a steamboat, but that wasanother mistake of mine.'
said nothing, but went serenely on with his work
He rang for the leads;he rang to slow down the steam; he worked the boat carefully and neatlyinto invisible marks, then stood at the center of the wheel and peeredblandly out into the blackness, fore and aft, to verify his position;as the leads shoaled more and more, he stopped the engines entirely,and the dead silence and suspense of 'drifting' followed when the shoalestwater was struck, he cracked on the steam, carried her handsomely over,and then began to work her warily into the next system of shoal marks;the same patient, heedful use of leads and engines followed, the boatslipped through without touching bottom, and entered upon the third andlast intricacy of the crossing; imperceptibly she moved through the gloom,crept by inches into her marks, drifted tediously till the shoalest waterwas cried, and then, under a tremendous head of steam, went swinging overthe reef and away into deep water and safety!
That's the sweetest piece of piloting that was ever done onthe Mississippi River!
I wouldn't believed it could be done,if I hadn't seen it.'
'Just hold her five minutes longer, partner, and let me run down and geta cup of coffee.'
A minute later Ealer was biting into a pie, down in the 'texas,'and comforting himself with coffee
Just then the night watchmanhappened in, and was about to happen out again, when he noticedEaler and exclaimed--
'Who is at the wheel, sir?'
'Dart for the pilot-house, quicker than lightning!'
The next moment both men were flying up the pilot-house companion way,three steps at a jump!
Nobody there!
The great steamer waswhistling down the middle of the river at her own sweet will!
The watchman shot out of the place again; Ealer seized the wheel,set an engine back with power, and held his breath while the boatreluctantly swung away from a 'towhead' which she was about to knockinto the middle of the Gulf of Mexico!
By and by the watchman came back and said--
'Didn't that lunatic tell you he was asleep, when he first came up here?'
Well, he was
I found him walking along on top of the railingsjust as unconcerned as another man would walk a pavement;and I put him to bed; now just this minute there he was again,away astern, going through that sort of tight-rope deviltrythe same as before.'
'Well, I think I'll stay by, next time he has one of those fits.
But I hope he'll have them often
You just ought to have seen him takethis boat through Helena crossing
I never saw anything so gaudy before.
And if he can do such gold-leaf, kid-glove, diamond-breastpin pilotingwhen he is sound asleep, what COULDN'T he do if he was dead!'
WHEN the river is very low, and one's steamboat is 'drawing all the water'there is in the channel,--or a few inches more, as was often the casein the old times,--one must be painfully circumspect in his piloting.
We used to have to 'sound' a number of particularly bad places almost everytrip when the river was at a very low stage.
Sounding is done in this way
The boat ties up at the shore, just abovethe shoal crossing; the pilot not on watch takes his 'cub' or steersmanand a picked crew of men (sometimes an officer also), and goes outin the yawl--provided the boat has not that rare and sumptuous luxury,a regularly-devised 'sounding-boat'--and proceeds to hunt for the best water,the pilot on duty watching his movements through a spy-glass, meantime,and in some instances assisting by signals of the boat's whistle,signifying 'try higher up' or 'try lower down;' for the surface ofthe water, like an oil-painting, is more expressive and intelligiblewhen inspected from a little distance than very close at hand.
The whistle signals are seldom necessary, however; never, perhaps, except whenthe wind confuses the significant ripples upon the water's surface.
When the yawl has reached the shoal place, the speed is slackened,the pilot begins to sound the depth with a pole ten or twelve feet long,and the steersman at the tiller obeys the order to 'hold her upto starboard;' or, 'let her fall off to larboard;'<footnote [Theterm 'larboard' is never used at seam now, to signify the left hand;but was always used on the river in my time]> or 'steady--steadyas you go.'
When the measurements indicate that the yawl is approachingthe shoalest part of the reef, the command is given to 'ease all!'
Then the men stop rowing and the yawl drifts with the current.
The next order is, 'Stand by with the buoy!'
The momentthe shallowest point is reached, the pilot delivers the order,'Let go the buoy!'
If the pilot isnot satisfied, he sounds the place again; if he finds better waterhigher up or lower down, he removes the buoy to that place.
Being finally satisfied, he gives the order, and all the menstand their oars straight up in the air, in line; a blast fromthe boat's whistle indicates that the signal has been seen;then the men 'give way' on their oars and lay the yawlalongside the buoy; the steamer comes creeping carefully down,is pointed straight at the buoy, husbands her power forthe coming struggle, and presently, at the critical moment,turns on all her steam and goes grinding and wallowing overthe buoy and the sand, and gains the deep water beyond.
Or maybe she doesn't; maybe she 'strikes and swings.'
Then she has to while away several hours (or days)sparring herself off.
Sometimes a buoy is not laid at all, but the yawl goes ahead,hunting the best water, and the steamer follows along in its wake.
Often there is a deal of fun and excitement about sounding,especially if it is a glorious summer day, or a blustering night.
But in winter the cold and the peril take most of the fun out of it.
A buoy is nothing but a board four or five feet long,with one end turned up; it is a reversed school-house bench,with one of the supports left and the other removed.
It is anchored on the shoalest part of the reef by arope with a heavy stone made fast to the end of it.
But for the resistance of the turned-up end of the reversed bench,the current would pull the buoy under water
At night, a paperlantern with a candle in it is fastened on top of the buoy,and this can be seen a mile or more, a little glimmering spark inthe waste of blackness.
Nothing delights a cub so much as an opportunity to go out sounding.
There is such an air of adventure about it; often there is danger;it is so gaudy and man-of-war-like to sit up in the stern-sheets and steera swift yawl; there is something fine about the exultant spring of the boatwhen an experienced old sailor crew throw their souls into the oars;it is lovely to see the white foam stream away from the bows; there ismusic in the rush of the water; it is deliciously exhilarating, in summer,to go speeding over the breezy expanses of the river when the worldof wavelets is dancing in the sun
It is such grandeur, too, to the cub,to get a chance to give an order; for often the pilot will simply say,'Let her go about!'
and leave the rest to the cub, who instantly cries,in his sternest tone of command, 'Ease starboard!
Strong on the larboard!
Starboard give way!
With a will, men!'
The cub enjoys soundingfor the further reason that the eyes of the passengers are watching allthe yawl's movements with absorbing interest if the time be daylight;and if it be night he knows that those same wondering eyes are fastenedupon the yawl's lantern as it glides out into the gloom and dims awayin the remote distance.
One trip a pretty girl of sixteen spent her time in our pilot-housewith her uncle and aunt, every day and all day long
I fell in love with her
Tom and I had beenbosom friends until this time; but now a coolness began to arise.
I told the girl a good many of my river adventures, and mademyself out a good deal of a hero; Tom tried to make himself appearto be a hero, too, and succeeded to some extent, but then he alwayshad a way of embroidering
However, virtue is its own reward,so I was a barely perceptible trifle ahead in the contest.
About this time something happened which promised handsomely for me:the pilots decided to sound the crossing at the head of 21.
This would occur about nine or ten o'clock at night, when thepassengers would be still up; it would be Mr
Thornburg's watch,therefore my chief would have to do the sounding
We had a perfectlove of a sounding-boat--long, trim, graceful, and as fleet asa greyhound; her thwarts were cushioned; she carried twelve oarsmen;one of the mates was always sent in her to transmit orders to her crew,for ours was a steamer where no end of 'style' was put on.
We tied up at the shore above 21, and got ready
It was a foul night,and the river was so wide, there, that a landsman's uneducatedeyes could discern no opposite shore through such a gloom.
The passengers were alert and interested; everything was satisfactory.
As I hurried through the engine-room, picturesquely gotten upin storm toggery, I met Tom, and could not forbear deliveringmyself of a mean speech--
'Ain't you glad YOU don't have to go out sounding?'
Who wants you to get it?
I don't
It's in the sounding-boat.'
'It ain't, either
It's been new-painted; and it's been up on the ladies'cabin guards two days, drying.
I flew back, and shortly arrived among the crowd of watchingand wondering ladies just in time to hear the command:
'Give way, men!'
Oh, how awful to have to go out in that little boat on such a night!
Do you think there is any danger?
I would rather have been stabbed
I went off, full of venom,to help in the pilot-house
By and by the boat's lantern disappeared,and after an interval a wee spark glimmered upon the face of the watera mile away
Thornburg blew the whistle, in acknowledgment,backed the steamer out, and made for it
We flew along for a while,then slackened steam and went cautiously gliding toward the spark.
'Hello, the buoy-lantern's out!'
He stopped the engines
A moment or two later he said--
'Why, there it is again!'
So he came ahead on the engines once more, and rang for the leads.
Gradually the water shoaled up, and then began to deepen again!
'Well, I don't understand this
I believe that buoy has driftedoff the reef
Seems to be a little too far to the left.
No matter, it is safest to run over it anyhow.'
So, in that solid world of darkness we went creeping down on the light.
Thornburg seizedthe bell-ropes, rang a startling peal, and exclaimed--
'My soul, it's the sounding-boat!'
the paddle-wheel has ground the sounding-boatto lucifer matches!
Run!
See who is killed!'
I was on the main deck in the twinkling of an eye
My chief and the thirdmate and nearly all the men were safe
They had discovered their dangerwhen it was too late to pull out of the way; then, when the great guardsovershadowed them a moment later, they were prepared and knew what to do;at my chiefs order they sprang at the right instant, seized the guard,and were hauled aboard
The next moment the sounding-yawl swept aftto the wheel and was struck and splintered to atoms
Two of the men andthe cub Tom, were missing--a fact which spread like wildfire over the boat.
The passengers came flocking to the forward gangway, ladies and all,anxious-eyed, white-faced, and talked in awed voices of the dreadful thing.
And often and again I heard them say, 'Poor fellows!
poor boy, poor boy!'
By this time the boat's yawl was manned and away, to searchfor the missing
Now a faint call was heard, off to the left.
The yawl had disappeared in the other direction
Half the peoplerushed to one side to encourage the swimmer with their shouts;the other half rushed the other way to shriek to the yawl to turn about.
By the callings, the swimmer was approaching, but some said the soundshowed failing strength
The crowd massed themselves againstthe boiler-deck railings, leaning over and staring into the gloom;and every faint and fainter cry wrung from them such words as,'Ah, poor fellow, poor fellow!
is there no way to save him?'
But still the cries held out, and drew nearer, and presentlythe voice said pluckily--
'I can make it!
Stand by with a rope!'
What a rousing cheer they gave him!
The chief mate took his standin the glare of a torch-basket, a coil of rope in his hand,and his men grouped about him
The next moment the swimmer's faceappeared in the circle of light, and in another one the owner of itwas hauled aboard, limp and drenched, while cheer on cheer went up.
It was that devil Tom.
The yawl crew searched everywhere, but found no sign of the two men.
They probably failed to catch the guard, tumbled back, and were struckby the wheel and killed
Tom had never jumped for the guard at all,but had plunged head-first into the river and dived under the wheel.
It was nothing; I could have done it easy enough, and I said so;but everybody went on just the same, making a wonderful to do over that ass,as if he had done something great
That girl couldn't seem to haveenough of that pitiful 'hero' the rest of the trip; but little I cared;I loathed her, any way.
The way we came to mistake the sounding-boat's lantern for thebuoy-light was this
My chief said that after laying the buoyhe fell away and watched it till it seemed to be secure; then he tookup a position a hundred yards below it and a little to one side ofthe steamer's course, headed the sounding-boat up-stream, and waited.
Having to wait some time, he and the officer got to talking;he looked up when he judged that the steamer was about on the reef;saw that the buoy was gone, but supposed that the steamer had alreadyrun over it; he went on with his talk; he noticed that the steamerwas getting very close on him, but that was the correct thing;it was her business to shave him closely, for convenience in takinghim aboard; he was expecting her to sheer off, until the last moment;then it flashed upon him that she was trying to run him down,mistaking his lantern for the buoy-light; so he sang out,'Stand by to spring for the guard, men!'
and the next instant thejump was made.
A Pilot's Needs
BUT I am wandering from what I was intending to do, that is,make plainer than perhaps appears in the previous chapters,some of the peculiar requirements of the science of piloting.
First of all, there is one faculty which a pilot must incessantlycultivate until he has brought it to absolute perfection.
Nothing short of perfection will do
That faculty is memory.
He cannot stop with merely thinking a thing is so and so;he must know it; for this is eminently one of the 'exact' sciences.
With what scorn a pilot was looked upon, in the old times,if he ever ventured to deal in that feeble phrase 'I think,'instead of the vigorous one 'I know!'
One cannot easily realizewhat a tremendous thing it is to know every trivial detail of twelvehundred miles of river and know it with absolute exactness.
If you will take the longest street in New York, and travel upand down it, conning its features patiently until you know everyhouse and window and door and lamp-post and big and little signby heart, and know them so accurately that you can instantlyname the one you are abreast of when you are set down at randomin that street in the middle of an inky black night, you will thenhave a tolerable notion of the amount and the exactness of apilot's knowledge who carries the Mississippi River in his head.
And then if you will go on until you know every street crossing,the character, size, and position of the crossing-stones,and the varying depth of mud in each of those numberless places,you will have some idea of what the pilot must know in orderto keep a Mississippi steamer out of trouble
Next, if youwill take half of the signs in that long street, and CHANGE THEIRPLACES once a month, and still manage to know their new positionsaccurately on dark nights, and keep up with these repeated changeswithout making any mistakes, you will understand what is requiredof a pilot's peerless memory by the fickle Mississippi.
I think a pilot's memory is about the most wonderful thingin the world
To know the Old and New Testaments by heart,and be able to recite them glibly, forward or backward,or begin at random anywhere in the book and recite both waysand never trip or make a mistake, is no extravagant massof knowledge, and no marvelous facility, compared to a pilot'smassed knowledge of the Mississippi and his marvelous facilityin the handling of it
I make this comparison deliberately,and believe I am not expanding the truth when I do it.
Many will think my figure too strong, but pilots will not.
And how easily and comfortably the pilot's memory does its work;how placidly effortless is its way; how UNCONSCIOUSLY it lays upits vast stores, hour by hour, day by day, and never loses ormislays a single valuable package of them all!
Take an instance.
half twain!
half twain!
half twain!
half twain!'
until it become as monotonous as the ticking of a clock;let conversation be going on all the time, and the pilot be doinghis share of the talking, and no longer consciously listeningto the leadsman; and in the midst of this endless string of halftwains let a single 'quarter twain!'
be interjected, without emphasis,and then the half twain cry go on again, just as before:two or three weeks later that pilot can describe with precisionthe boat's position in the river when that quarter twainwas uttered, and give you such a lot of head-marks, stern-marks,and side-marks to guide you, that you ought to be able to takethe boat there and put her in that same spot again yourself!
The cry of 'quarter twain' did not really take his mind from his talk,but his trained faculties instantly photographed the bearings,noted the change of depth, and laid up the important details for futurereference without requiring any assistance from him in the matter.
If you were walking and talking with a friend, and another friendat your side kept up a monotonous repetition of the vowel sound A,for a couple of blocks, and then in the midst interjected an R,thus, A, A, A, A, A, R, A, A, A, etc.
, and gave the R no emphasis,you would not be able to state, two or three weeks afterward,that the R had been put in, nor be able to tell what objects youwere passing at the moment it was done
But you could if yourmemory had been patiently and laboriously trained to do that sortof thing mechanically.
A time would come when the man's faculties could not helpnoticing landmarks and soundings, and his memory could nothelp holding on to them with the grip of a vise; but if youasked that same man at noon what he had had for breakfast,it would be ten chances to one that he could not tell you.
Astonishing things can be done with the human memory if you willdevote it faithfully to one particular line of business.
At the time that wages soared so high on the Missouri River, my chief,Mr
Bixby, went up there and learned more than a thousand milesof that stream with an ease and rapidity that were astonishing.
When he had seen each division once in the daytime and once at night,his education was so nearly complete that he took out a 'daylight' license;a few trips later he took out a full license, and went to piloting dayand night--and he ranked A 1, too.
Bixby placed me as steersman for a while under a pilot whose featsof memory were a constant marvel to me
However, his memory was bornin him, I think, not built
For instance, somebody would mention a name.
Sallow-faced, red-headed fellow, with alittle scar on the side of his throat, like a splinter underthe flesh
He was only in the Southern trade six months.
That was thirteen years ago
I made a trip with him.
There was five feet in the upper river then; the "Henry Blake"grounded at the foot of Tower Island drawing four and a half;the "George Elliott" unshipped her rudder on the wreckof the "Sunflower"----'
I never saw either of the Hardys,--they wereAlleghany River men,--but people who knew them told me all these things.
And they said Captain Hardy wore yarn socks winter and summer just the same,and his first wife's name was Jane Shook--she was from New England--and his second one died in a lunatic asylum
It was in the blood.
She was from Lexington, Kentucky
Name was Horton before she was married.
And so on, by the hour, the man's tongue would go.
He could NOT forget any thing
It was simply impossible.
The most trivial details remained as distinct and luminous in his head,after they had lain there for years, as the most memorable events.
His was not simply a pilot's memory; its grasp was universal.
If he were talking about a trifling letter he had received sevenyears before, he was pretty sure to deliver you the entire screedfrom memory
And then without observing that he was departingfrom the true line of his talk, he was more than likely to hurlin a long-drawn parenthetical biography of the writer of that letter;and you were lucky indeed if he did not take up that writer's relatives,one by one, and give you their biographies, too.
Such a memory as that is a great misfortune
To it, all occurrencesare of the same 
Its possessor cannot distinguish an interestingcircumstance from an uninteresting one
As a talker, he is boundto clog his narrative with tiresome details and make himselfan insufferable bore
Moreover, he cannot stick to his subject.
He picks up every little grain of memory he discerns in his way,and so is led aside
Brown would start out with the honestintention of telling you a vastly funny anecdote about a dog.
He would be 'so full of laugh' that he could hardly begin; then hismemory would start with the dog's breed and personal appearance;drift into a history of his owner; of his owner's family,with descriptions of weddings and burials that had occurred in it,together with recitals of congratulatory verses and obituary poetryprovoked by the same:  then this memory would recollect that oneof these events occurred during the celebrated 'hard winter'of such and such a year, and a minute description of that winterwould follow, along with the names of people who were frozen to death,and statistics showing the high figures which pork and hay went up to.
Pork and hay would suggest corn and fodder; corn and fodder wouldsuggest cows and horses; cows and horses would suggest the circusand certain celebrated bare-back riders; the transition fromthe circus to the menagerie was easy and natural; from the elephantto equatorial Africa was but a step; then of course the heathensavages would suggest religion; and at the end of three or four hours'tedious jaw, the watch would change, and Brown would go outof the pilot-house muttering extracts from sermons he had heardyears before about the efficacy of prayer as a means of grace.
And the original first mention would be all you had learned about that dog,after all this waiting and hungering.
A pilot must have a memory; but there are two higher qualitieswhich he must also have
He must have good and quick judgmentand decision, and a cool, calm courage that no peril can shake.
Give a man the merest trifle of pluck to start with, and by the timehe has become a pilot he cannot be unmanned by any danger a steamboatcan get into; but one cannot quite say the same for judgment.
Judgment is a matter of brains, and a man must START with a goodstock of that article or he will never succeed as a pilot.
The growth of courage in the pilot-house is steady all the time,but it does not reach a high and satisfactory condition untilsome time after the young pilot has been 'standing his own watch,'alone and under the staggering weight of all the responsibilitiesconnected with the position
When an apprentice has become prettythoroughly acquainted with the river, he goes clattering alongso fearlessly with his steamboat, night or day, that he presentlybegins to imagine that it is HIS courage that animates him;but the first time the pilot steps out and leaves him to hisown devices he finds out it was the other man's
He discoversthat the article has been left out of his own cargo altogether.
The whole river is bristling with exigencies in a moment;he is not prepared for them; he does not know how to meet them;all his knowledge forsakes him; and within fifteen minuteshe is as white as a sheet and scared almost to death.
Therefore pilots wisely train these cubs by various strategictricks to look danger in the face a little more calmly.
A favorite way of theirs is to play a friendly swindle uponthe candidate.
Bixby served me in this fashion once, and for years afterwardI used to blush even in my sleep when I thought of it.
I had become a good steersman; so good, indeed, that I had allthe work to do on our watch, night and day; Mr
Bixby seldommade a suggestion to me; all he ever did was to take the wheelon particularly bad nights or in particularly bad crossings,land the boat when she needed to be landed, play gentlemanof leisure nine-tenths of the watch, and collect the wages.
The lower river was about bank-full, and if anybody had questionedmy ability to run any crossing between Cairo and New Orleanswithout help or instruction, I should have felt irreparably hurt.
The idea of being afraid of any crossing in the lot,in the DAY-TIME, was a thing too preposterous for contemplation.
Well, one matchless summer's day I was bowling down the bendabove island 66, brimful of self-conceit and carrying my noseas high as a giraffe's, when Mr
'I am going below a while
I suppose you know the next crossing?'
This was almost an affront
It was about the plainest and simplest crossingin the whole river
One couldn't come to any harm, whether he ran itright or not; and as for depth, there never had been any bottom there.
I knew all this, perfectly well.
'Know how to RUN it?
Why, I can run it with my eyes shut.'
'How much water is there in it?'
'Well, that is an odd question
I couldn't get bottom therewith a church steeple.'
'You think so, do you?'
The very tone of the question shook my confidence.
That was what Mr
Bixby was expecting
He left, without sayinganything more
I began to imagine all sorts of things.
Mr Bixby, unknown to me, of course, sent somebody down tothe forecastle with some mysterious instructions to the leadsmen,another messenger was sent to whisper among the officers,and then Mr
Bixby went into hiding behind a smoke-stack wherehe could observe results
Presently the captain stepped out onthe hurricane deck; next the chief mate appeared; then a clerk.
Every moment or two a straggler was added to my audience;and before I got to the head of the island I had fifteenor twenty people assembled down there under my nose.
I began to wonder what the trouble was
But that did the business for me
My imagination began to constructdangers out of nothing, and they multiplied faster than I could keepthe run of them
All at once I imagined I saw shoal water ahead!
The wave of coward agony that surged through me then came near dislocatingevery joint in me
All my confidence in that crossing vanished.
I seized the bell-rope; dropped it, ashamed; seized it again;dropped it once more; clutched it tremblingly one again,and pulled it so feebly that I could hardly hear the stroke myself.
Captain and mate sang out instantly, and both together--
'Starboard lead there!
and quick about it!'
This was another shock
I began to climb the wheel like a squirrel;but I would hardly get the boat started to port before I would see newdangers on that side, and away I would spin to the other; only to findperils accumulating to starboard, and be crazy to get to port again.
Deep four in a bottomless crossing!
The terror of it took my breath away.
This was frightful!
I seized the bell-ropes and stopped the engines.
I was helpless
I did not know what in the world to do.
I was quaking from head to foot, and I could have hung my hat onmy eyes, they stuck out so far.
My hands were in a nerveless flutter.
I could not ring a bell intelligibly with them
Quick, Ben!
Oh, back the immortalSOUL out of her!
I heard the door close gently
Then the audience onthe hurricane deck sent up a thundergust of humiliating laughter.
I saw it all, now, and I felt meaner than the meanest man inhuman history
I suppose I'll never hear the last of how I was ass enough to heavethe lead at the head of 66.'
'Well, no, you won't, maybe
In fact I hope you won't;for I want you to learn something by that experience.
Didn't you KNOW there was no bottom in that crossing?'
'Yes, sir, I did.'
'Very well, then
You shouldn't have allowed me or anybody elseto shake your confidence in that knowledge
Try to remember that.
And another thing:  when you get into a dangerous place, don't turn coward.
That isn't going to help matters any.'
It was a good enough lesson, but pretty hardly learned.
Yet about the hardest part of it was that for months I so often hadto hear a phrase which I had conceived a particular distaste for.
It was, 'Oh, Ben, if you love me, back her!'
Rank and Dignity of Piloting
IN my preceding chapters I have tried, by going into the minutiaeof the science of piloting, to carry the reader step by stepto a comprehension of what the science consists of; and atthe same time I have tried to show him that it is a very curiousand wonderful science, too, and very worthy of his attention.
If I have seemed to love my subject, it is no surprising thing,for I loved the profession far better than any I have followed since,and I took a measureless pride in it
The reason is plain:a pilot, in those days, was the only unfettered andentirely independent human being that lived in the earth.
Kings are but the hampered servants of parliament and people;parliaments sit in chains forged by their constituency;the editor of a newspaper cannot be independent, but mustwork with one hand tied behind him by party and patrons,and be content to utter only half or two-thirds of his mind;no clergyman is a free man and may speak the whole truth,regardless of his parish's opinions; writers of all kinds aremanacled servants of the public
We write frankly and fearlessly,but then we 'modify' before we print
In truth, every man andwoman and child has a master, and worries and frets in servitude;but in the day I write of, the Mississippi pilot had none.
The captain could stand upon the hurricane deck, in the pompof a very brief authority, and give him five or six orders whilethe vessel backed into the stream, and then that skipper's reignwas over
The moment that the boat was under way in the river,she was under the sole and unquestioned control of the pilot.
He could do with her exactly as he pleased, run her when and whitherhe chose, and tie her up to the bank whenever his judgment saidthat that course was best
His movements were entirely free;he consulted no one, he received commands from nobody,he promptly resented even the merest suggestions
Indeed, the lawof the United States forbade him to listen to commandsor suggestions, rightly considering that the pilot necessarilyknew better how to handle the boat than anybody could tell him.
So here was the novelty of a king without a keeper, an absolute monarchwho was absolute in sober truth and not by a fiction of words.
I have seen a boy of eighteen taking a great steamer serenelyinto what seemed almost certain destruction, and the aged captainstanding mutely by, filled with apprehension but powerlessto interfere
His interference, in that particular instance,might have been an excellent thing, but to permit it wouldhave been to establish a most pernicious precedent
It willeasily be guessed, considering the pilot's boundless authority,that he was a great personage in the old steamboating days.
He was treated with marked courtesy by the captain and with markeddeference by all the officers and servants; and this deferentialspirit was quickly communicated to the passengers, too
I thinkpilots were about the only people I ever knew who failed to show,in some degree, embarrassment in the presence of travelingforeign princes
But then, people in one's own grade of lifeare not usually embarrassing objects.
By long habit, pilots came to put all their wishes in the form of commands.
It 'gravels' me, to this day, to put my will in the weak shape ofa request, instead of launching it in the crisp language of an order.
In those old days, to load a steamboat at St
Louis, take her to NewOrleans and back, and discharge cargo, consumed about twenty-five days,on an average
Seven or eight of these days the boat spent at the wharvesof St
Louis and New Orleans, and every soul on board was hard at work,except the two pilots; they did nothing but play gentleman up town,and receive the same wages for it as if they had been on duty.
The moment the boat touched the wharf at either city, they were ashore;and they were not likely to be seen again till the last bell was ringing andeverything in readiness for another voyage.
When a captain got hold of a pilot of particularly high reputation,he took pains to keep him
When wages were four hundred dollarsa month on the Upper Mississippi, I have known a captainto keep such a pilot in idleness, under full pay, three monthsat a time, while the river was frozen up
And one must rememberthat in those cheap times four hundred dollars was a salaryof almost inconceivable splendor
Few men on shore got such payas that, and when they did they were mightily looked up to.
When pilots from either end of the river wandered into our smallMissouri village, they were sought by the best and the fairest,and treated with exalted respect
Lying in port under wageswas a thing which many pilots greatly enjoyed and appreciated;especially if they belonged in the Missouri River in the heydayof that trade (Kansas times), and got nine hundred dollars a trip,which was equivalent to about eighteen hundred dollars a month.
Here is a conversation of that day
A chap out of the Illinois River,with a little stern-wheel tub, accosts a couple of ornate and gildedMissouri River pilots--
'Gentlemen, I've got a pretty good trip for the upcountry,and shall want you about a month
How much will it be?'
'Eighteen hundred dollars apiece.'
'Heavens and earth!
You take my boat, let me have your wages,and I'll divide!'
I will remark, in passing, that Mississippi steamboatmen wereimportant in landsmen's eyes (and in their own, too, in a degree)according to the dignity of the boat they were on.
For instance, it was a proud thing to be of the crew of suchstately craft as the 'Aleck Scott' or the 'Grand Turk.'
Negro firemen, deck hands, and barbers belonging to those boatswere distinguished personages in their grade of life, and they werewell aware of that fact too
A stalwart darkey once gave offenseat a negro ball in New Orleans by putting on a good many airs.
Finally one of the managers bustled up to him and said--
'Who IS you, any way?
Who is you?
dat's what I
wants to know!'
The offender was not disconcerted in the least, but swelled himself upand threw that into his voice which showed that he knew he was not puttingon all those airs on a stinted capital.
'Who IS I?
Who IS I?
I let you know mighty quick who I is!
That was sufficient.
The barber of the 'Grand Turk' was a spruce young negro,who aired his importance with balmy complacency,and was greatly courted by the circle in which he moved.
The young colored population of New Orleans were much givento flirting, at twilight, on the banquettes of the back streets.
Somebody saw and heard something like the following,one evening, in one of those localities
A middle-aged negrowoman projected her head through a broken pane and shouted(very willing that the neighbors should hear and envy), 'YouMary Ann, come in de house dis minute!
Stannin' out dah foolin''long wid dat low trash, an' heah's de barber offn de "Gran' Turk"wants to conwerse wid you!
My reference, a moment ago, to the fact that a pilot's peculiarofficial position placed him out of the reach of criticism or command,brings Stephen W---- naturally to my mind
He was a gifted pilot,a good fellow, a tireless talker, and had both wit and humor in him.
He had a most irreverent independence, too, and was deliciouslyeasy-going and comfortable in the presence of age, official dignity,and even the most august wealth
He always had work, he neversaved a penny, he was a most persuasive borrower, he was in debtto every pilot on the river, and to the majority of the captains.
He could throw a sort of splendor around a bit of harum-scarum,devil-may-care piloting, that made it almost fascinating--but not to everybody
Somebody expressed surprise at the discharge
I wouldn't have such a wild creature on my boatfor the world--not for the whole world!
He swears, he sings,he whistles, he yells--I never saw such an Injun to yell.
All times of the night--it never made any difference to him.
He would just yell that way, not for anything in particular,but merely on account of a kind of devilish comfort he got out of it.
I never could get into a sound sleep but he would fetch meout of bed, all in a cold sweat, with one of those dreadfulwar-whoops
A queer being--very queer being; no respectfor anything or anybody
Sometimes he called me "Johnny.
And he kept a fiddle, and a cat
He played execrably.
This seemed to distress the cat, and so the cat would howl.
Nobody could sleep where that man--and his family--was.
And reckless
There never was anything like it.
Now you may believe it or not, but as sure as I am sitting here,he brought my boat a-tilting down through those awful snagsat Chicot under a rattling head of steam, and the wind a-blowinglike the very nation, at that!
My officers will tell you so.
They saw it
And, sir, while he was a-tearing right downthrough those snags, and I a-shaking in my shoes and praying,I wish I may never speak again if he didn't pucker up his mouthand go to WHISTLING!
Yes, sir; whistling "Buffalo gals,can't you come out tonight, can't you come out to-night,can't you come out to-night;" and doing it as calmly as if wewere attending a funeral and weren't related to the corpse.
And when I remonstrated with him about it, he smiled down on meas if I was his child, and told me to run in the house and tryto be good, and not be meddling with my superiors!
Once a pretty mean captain caught Stephen in New Orleans out of workand as usual out of money
He laid steady siege to Stephen, who wasin a very 'close place,' and finally persuaded him to hire with himat one hundred and twenty-five dollars per month, just half wages,the captain agreeing not to divulge the secret and so bring down the contemptof all the guild upon the poor fellow
But the boat was not more thana day out of New Orleans before Stephen discovered that the captainwas boasting of his exploit, and that all the officers had been told.
Stephen winced, but said nothing
About the middle of the afternoonthe captain stepped out on the hurricane deck, cast his eye around,and looked a good deal surprised
He glanced inquiringly aloft at Stephen,but Stephen was whistling placidly, and attending to business.
The captain stood around a while in evident discomfort, and once or twiceseemed about to make a suggestion; but the etiquette of the river taughthim to avoid that sort of rashness, and so he managed to hold his peace.
He chafed and puzzled a few minutes longer, then retired to his apartments.
But soon he was out again, and apparently more perplexed than ever.
Well, I should say so!
Bank-full IS a pretty liberal stage.'
'Seems to be a good deal of current here.'
'Good deal don't describe it!
It's worse than a mill-race.'
'Isn't it easier in toward shore than it is out here in the middle?'
'Yes, I reckon it is; but a body can't be too careful with a steamboat.
It's pretty safe out here; can't strike any bottom here, you candepend on that.'
The captain departed, looking rueful enough
At this rate,he would probably die of old age before his boat got to St
Louis.
Next day he appeared on deck and again found Stephen faithfullystanding up the middle of the river, fighting the whole vastforce of the Mississippi, and whistling the same placid tune.
This thing was becoming serious
In by the shore was a slower boatclipping along in the easy water and gaining steadily; she beganto make for an island chute; Stephen stuck to the middle of the river.
'I think it does, but I don't know.'
'Don't know!
Well, isn't there water enough in it now to go through?'
'I expect there is, but I am not certain.'
Upon my word this is odd!
Why, those pilots on that boat yonder are goingto try it
Do you mean to say that you don't know as much as they do?'
Why, THEY are two-hundred-and-fifty-dollar pilots!
But don't you be uneasy; I know as much as any man can affordto know for a hundred and twenty-five!'
The captain surrendered.
Five minutes later Stephen was bowling through the chute and showingthe rival boat a two-hundred-and-fifty-dollar pair of heels.
The Pilots' Monopoly
ONE day, on board the 'Aleck Scott,' my chief, Mr Bixby,was crawling carefully through a close place at Cat Island,both leads going, and everybody holding his breath
The captain,a nervous, apprehensive man, kept still as long as he could,but finally broke down and shouted from the hurricane deck--
'For gracious' sake, give her steam, Mr Bixby!
give her steam!
She'll never raise the reef on this headway!'
For all the effect that was produced upon Mr Bixby, one would have supposedthat no remark had been made
But five minutes later, when the dangerwas past and the leads laid in, he burst instantly into a consuming fury,and gave the captain the most admirable cursing I ever listened to.
No bloodshed ensued; but that was because the captain's cause was weak;for ordinarily he was not a man to take correction quietly.
Having now set forth in detail the nature of the science of piloting,and likewise described the rank which the pilot held among the fraternityof steamboatmen, this seems a fitting place to say a few words about anorganization which the pilots once formed for the protection of their guild.
It was curious and noteworthy in this, that it was perhaps the compactest,the completest, and the strongest commercial organization everformed among men.
For a long time wages had been two hundred and fifty dollars a month;but curiously enough, as steamboats multiplied and business increased,the wages began to fall little by little
It was easy to discoverthe reason of this
Too many pilots were being 'made.'
It was niceto have a 'cub,' a steersman, to do all the hard work for a coupleof years, gratis, while his master sat on a high bench and smoked;all pilots and captains had sons or nephews who wanted to be pilots
By andby it came to pass that nearly every pilot on the river had a steersman.
When a steersman had made an amount of progress that was satisfactoryto any two pilots in the trade, they could get a pilot's license for himby signing an application directed to the United States Inspector.
Nothing further was needed; usually no questions were asked, no proofsof capacity required.
Very well, this growing swarm of new pilots presentlybegan to undermine the wages, in order to get berths.
Too late--apparently--the knights of the tiller perceivedtheir mistake
Plainly, something had to be done, and quickly;but what was to be the needful thing
A close organization.
Nothing else would answer
To compass this seemed an impossibility;so it was talked, and talked, and then dropped.
It was too likely to ruin whoever ventured to movein the matter
But at last about a dozen of the boldest--and some of them the best--pilots on the river launchedthemselves into the enterprise and took all the chances.
They got a special charter from the legislature, with large powers,under the name of the Pilots' Benevolent Association;elected their officers, completed their organization,contributed capital, put 'association' wages up to two hundredand fifty dollars at once--and then retired to their homes,for they were promptly discharged from employment.
But there were two or three unnoticed trifles in their by-lawswhich had the seeds of propagation in them
For instance,all idle members of the association, in good standing,were entitled to a pension of twenty-five dollars per month.
This began to bring in one straggler after another from the ranksof the new-fledged pilots, in the dull (summer) season.
Better have twenty-five dollars than starve; the initiationfee was only twelve dollars, and no dues requiredfrom the unemployed.
Also, the widows of deceased members in good standing coulddraw twenty-five dollars per month, and a certain sum for eachof their children
Also, the said deceased would be buriedat the association's expense
These things resurrected allthe superannuated and forgotten pilots in the Mississippi Valley.
They came from farms, they came from interior villages, they camefrom everywhere
They came on crutches, on drays, in ambulances,--any way, so they got there
They paid in their twelve dollars,and straightway began to draw out twenty-five dollars a month,and calculate their burial bills.
By and by, all the useless, helpless pilots, and a dozen first-class ones,were in the association, and nine-tenths of the best pilots out of itand laughing at it
It was the laughing-stock of the whole river.
Everybody joked about the by-law requiring members to pay ten per cent.
of their wages, every month, into the treasury for the supportof the association, whereas all the members were outcast and tabooed,and no one would employ them
Everybody was derisively gratefulto the association for taking all the worthless pilots out of the wayand leaving the whole field to the excellent and the deserving;and everybody was not only jocularly grateful for that, but for aresult which naturally followed, namely, the gradual advance of wagesas the busy season approached
Wages had gone up from the low figureof one hundred dollars a month to one hundred and twenty-five, and insome cases to one hundred and fifty; and it was great fun to enlargeupon the fact that this charming thing had been accomplished by a bodyof men not one of whom received a particle of benefit from it.
Some of the jokers used to call at the association rooms and havea good time chaffing the members and offering them the charityof taking them as steersmen for a trip, so that they could see whatthe forgotten river looked like
However, the association was content;or at least it gave no sign to the contrary
Now and then itcaptured a pilot who was 'out of luck,' and added him to its list;and these later additions were very valuable, for they were good pilots;the incompetent ones had all been absorbed before
As business freshened,wages climbed gradually up to two hundred and fifty dollars--the association figure--and became firmly fixed there; and stillwithout benefiting a member of that body, for no member was hired.
The hilarity at the association's expense burst all bounds, now.
There was no end to the fun which that poor martyr had toput up with.
However, it is a long lane that has no turning
Winter approached,business doubled and trebled, and an avalanche of Missouri,Illinois and Upper Mississippi River boats came pouring downto take a chance in the New Orleans trade
All of a suddenpilots were in great demand, and were correspondingly scarce.
The time for revenge was come
It was a bitter pill to have toaccept association pilots at last, yet captains and owners agreedthat there was no other way
But none of these outcasts offered!
So there was a still bitterer pill to be swallowed:they must be sought out and asked for their services.
Captain ---- was the first man who found it necessary to takethe dose, and he had been the loudest derider of the organization.
He hunted up one of the best of the association pilots and said--
'Well, you boys have rather got the best of us for alittle while, so I'll give in with as good a grace as I can.
I've come to hire you; get your trunk aboard right away.
I want to leave at twelve o'clock.'
I don't know about that
Who is your other pilot?
I've got I
I can't go with him
He don't belong to the association.
'Do you mean to tell me that you won't turn a wheel with one of the very bestand oldest pilots on the river because he don't belong to your association?'
'Yes, I do.'
'Well, if this isn't putting on airs!
I supposed I was doing youa benevolence; but I begin to think that I am the party that wantsa favor done
Are you acting under a law of the concern?'
'Show it to me.'
So they stepped into the association rooms, and the secretarysoon satisfied the captain, who said--
'Well, what am I to do?
'I will provide for you,' said the secretary
'I will detail a pilotto go with you, and he shall be on board at twelve o'clock.'
'But if I discharge S----, he will come on me for the whole season's wages.'
We cannot meddle in your private affairs.'
The captain stormed, but to no purpose
In the end he had to dischargeS----, pay him about a thousand dollars, and take an association pilotin his place
The laugh was beginning to turn the other way now.
Every day, thenceforward, a new victim fell; every day some outragedcaptain discharged a non-association pet, with tears and profanity,and installed a hated association man in his berth
In a verylittle while, idle non-associationists began to be pretty plenty,brisk as business was, and much as their services were desired.
The laugh was shifting to the other side of their mouths most palpably.
These victims, together with the captains and owners, presently ceasedto laugh altogether, and began to rage about the revenge they would takewhen the passing business 'spurt' was over.
Soon all the laughers that were left were the ownersand crews of boats that had two non-association pilots.
But their triumph was not very long-lived
For this reason:It was a rigid rule of the association that its members should never,under any circumstances whatever, give information about the channelto any 'outsider.'
By this time about half the boats had nonebut association pilots, and the other half had none but outsiders.
At the first glance one would suppose that when it cameto forbidding information about the river these two partiescould play equally at that game; but this was not so.
At every good-sized town from one end of the river to the other,there was a 'wharf-boat' to land at, instead of a wharf or a pier.
Freight was stored in it for transportation; waiting passengers sleptin its cabins
Upon each of these wharf-boats the association'sofficers placed a strong box fastened with a peculiar lock which wasused in no other service but one--the United States mail service.
It was the letter-bag lock, a sacred governmental thing.
By dint of much beseeching the government had beenpersuaded to allow the association to use this lock.
Every association man carried a key which would open these boxes.
That key, or rather a peculiar way of holding it in the handwhen its owner was asked for river information by a stranger--for the success of the St
Louis and New Orleans associationhad now bred tolerably thriving branches in a dozen neighboringsteamboat trades--was the association man's sign and diplomaof membership; and if the stranger did not respond by producinga similar key and holding it in a certain manner duly prescribed,his question was politely ignored
From the association's secretaryeach member received a package of more or less gorgeous blanks,printed like a billhead, on handsome paper, properly ruled in columns;a bill-head worded something like this--
These blanks were filled up, day by day, as the voyageprogressed, and deposited in the several wharf-boat boxes.
For instance, as soon as the first crossing, out from St
Louis,was completed, the items would be entered upon the blank,under the appropriate headings, thus--
Nine and a half (feet)
Stern on court-house, headon dead cottonwood above wood-yard, until you raise the first reef,then pull up square.'
Then under head of Remarks:  'Go just outsidethe wrecks; this is important
New snag just where you straighten down;go above it.'
Imagine the benefits of so admirable a system in a piece of river twelveor thirteen hundred miles long, whose channel was shifting every day!
The pilot who had formerly been obliged to put up with seeing a shoalplace once or possibly twice a month, had a hundred sharp eyes to watch itfor him, now, and bushels of intelligent brains to tell him how to run it.
His information about it was seldom twenty-four hours old
If the reportsin the last box chanced to leave any misgivings on his mind concerninga treacherous crossing, he had his remedy; he blew his steam-whistlein a peculiar way as soon as he saw a boat approaching; the signal wasanswered in a peculiar way if that boat's pilots were association men;and then the two steamers ranged alongside and all uncertainties were sweptaway by fresh information furnished to the inquirer by word of mouth andin minute detail.
The first thing a pilot did when he reached New Orleans or St
Louiswas to take his final and elaborate report to the association parlorsand hang it up there,--after which he was free to visit his family.
In these parlors a crowd was always gathered together, discussingchanges in the channel, and the moment there was a fresh arrival,everybody stopped talking till this witness had told the newest newsand settled the latest uncertainty
Other craftsmen can 'sink the shop,'sometimes, and interest themselves in other matters
Not so with a pilot;he must devote himself wholly to his profession and talk of nothing else;for it would be small gain to be perfect one day and imperfect the next.
He has no time or words to waste if he would keep 'posted.'
But the outsiders had a hard time of it
No particular placeto meet and exchange information, no wharf-boat reports,none but chance and unsatisfactory ways of getting news.
The consequence was that a man sometimes had to run five hundredmiles of river on information that was a week or ten days old.
At a fair stage of the river that might have answered; but when thedead low water came it was destructive.
Now came another perfectly logical result
The outsiders beganto ground steamboats, sink them, and get into all sorts of trouble,whereas accidents seemed to keep entirely away from the association men.
Wherefore even the owners and captains of boats furnishedexclusively with outsiders, and previously considered to be whollyindependent of the association and free to comfort themselveswith brag and laughter, began to feel pretty uncomfortable.
Still, they made a show of keeping up the brag, until one black daywhen every captain of the lot was formally ordered to immediatelydischarge his outsiders and take association pilots in their stead.
And who was it that had the dashing presumption to do that?
Alas, it camefrom a power behind the throne that was greater than the throne itself.
It was the underwriters!
It was no time to 'swap knives.'
Every outsider had to take his trunkashore at once
Of course it was supposed that there was collusionbetween the association and the underwriters, but this was not so.
The latter had come to comprehend the excellence of the 'report' systemof the association and the safety it secured, and so they had made theirdecision among themselves and upon plain business principles.
There was weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth inthe camp of the outsiders now
But no matter, there wasbut one course for them to pursue, and they pursued it.
They came forward in couples and groups, and proffered theirtwelve dollars and asked for membership
They were surprisedto learn that several new by-laws had been long ago added.
For instance, the initiation fee had been raised to fifty dollars;that sum must be tendered, and also ten per cent.
of the wages which the applicant had received each and everymonth since the founding of the association
In many cases thisamounted to three or four hundred dollars
Still, the associationwould not entertain the application until the money was present.
Even then a single adverse vote killed the application.
Every member had to vote 'Yes' or 'No' in person and before witnesses;so it took weeks to decide a candidacy, because many pilotswere so long absent on voyages
However, the repentantsinners scraped their savings together, and one by one,by our tedious voting process, they were added to the fold.
A time came, at last, when only about ten remained outside.
They said they would starve before they would apply.
They remained idle a long while, because of course nobody could ventureto employ them.
By and by the association published the fact that upon a certaindate the wages would be raised to five hundred dollars per month.
All the branch associations had grown strong, now, and the RedRiver one had advanced wages to seven hundred dollars a month.
Reluctantly the ten outsiders yielded, in view of these things,and made application
There was another new by-law, by this time,which required them to pay dues not only on all the wages theyhad received since the association was born, but also on what theywould have received if they had continued at work up to the timeof their application, instead of going off to pout in idleness.
It turned out to be a difficult matter to elect them, but itwas accomplished at last
The most virulent sinner of thisbatch had stayed out and allowed 'dues' to accumulate againsthim so long that he had to send in six hundred and twenty-fivedollars with his application.
The association had a good bank account now, and was very strong.
There was no longer an outsider
A by-law was added forbiddingthe reception of any more cubs or apprentices for five years;after which time a limited number would be taken, not by individuals,but by the association, upon these terms:  the applicant mustnot be less than eighteen years old, and of respectable familyand good character; he must pass an examination as to education,pay a thousand dollars in advance for the privilege of becomingan apprentice, and must remain under the commands of the associationuntil a great part of the membership (more than half, I think)should be willing to sign his application for a pilot's license.
All previously-articled apprentices were now taken away from theirmasters and adopted by the association
The president and secretarydetailed them for service on one boat or another, as they chose,and changed them from boat to boat according to certain rules.
If a pilot could show that he was in infirm health and needed assistance,one of the cubs would be ordered to go with him.
The widow and orphan list grew, but so did the association'sfinancial resources
The association attended its ownfunerals in state, and paid for them
When occasion demanded,it sent members down the river upon searches for the bodiesof brethren lost by steamboat accidents; a search of this kindsometimes cost a thousand dollars.
The association procured a charter and went into the insurancebusiness, also
It not only insured the lives of its members,but took risks on steamboats.
The organization seemed indestructible
It was the tightest monopolyin the world
By the United States law, no man could becomea pilot unless two duly licensed pilots signed his application;and now there was nobody outside of the association competentto sign
Consequently the making of pilots was at an end.
Every year some would die and others become incapacitated by ageand infirmity; there would be no new ones to take their places.
In time, the association could put wages up to any figure it chose;and as long as it should be wise enough not to carry the thingtoo far and provoke the national government into amendingthe licensing system, steamboat owners would have to submit,since there would be no help for it.
The owners and captains were the only obstruction that lay betweenthe association and absolute power; and at last this one was removed.
Incredible as it may seem, the owners and captains deliberatelydid it themselves
When the pilots' association announced,months beforehand, that on the first day of September, 1861,wages would be advanced to five hundred dollars per month, the ownersand captains instantly put freights up a few cents, and explainedto the farmers along the river the necessity of it, by calling theirattention to the burdensome rate of wages about to be established.
It was a rather slender argument, but the farmers did not seem to detect it.
It looked reasonable to them that to add five cents freight on a bushelof corn was justifiable under the circumstances, overlooking the factthat this advance on a cargo of forty thousand sacks was a good dealmore than necessary to cover the new wages.
So, straightway the captains and owners got up an associationof their own, and proposed to put captains' wages up to fivehundred dollars, too, and move for another advance in freights.
It was a novel idea, but of course an effect which had beenproduced once could be produced again
The new association decreed(for this was before all the outsiders had been takeninto the pilots' association) that if any captain employeda non-association pilot, he should be forced to discharge him,and also pay a fine of five hundred dollars
Several of theseheavy fines were paid before the captains' organization grewstrong enough to exercise full authority over its membership;but that all ceased, presently
The captains tried to get the pilotsto decree that no member of their corporation should serve undera non-association captain; but this proposition was declined.
The pilots saw that they would be backed up by the captains andthe underwriters anyhow, and so they wisely refrained from enteringinto entangling alliances.
As I have remarked, the pilots' association was now the compactestmonopoly in the world, perhaps, and seemed simply indestructible.
And yet the days of its glory were numbered
First, the newrailroad stretching up through Mississippi, Tennessee, and Kentucky,to Northern railway centers, began to divert the passenger travelfrom the steamers; next the war came and almost entirely annihilatedthe steamboating industry during several years, leaving most ofthe pilots idle, and the cost of living advancing all the time;then the treasurer of the St
Louis association put his handinto the till and walked off with every dollar of the ample fund;and finally, the railroads intruding everywhere, there was littlefor steamers to do, when the war was over, but carry freights;so straightway some genius from the Atlantic coast introduced the planof towing a dozen steamer cargoes down to New Orleans at the tailof a vulgar little tug-boat; and behold, in the twinkling of an eye,as it were, the association and the noble science of piloting werethings of the dead and pathetic past!
IT was always the custom for the boats to leave NewOrleans between four and five o'clock in the afternoon.
From three o'clock onward they would be burning rosin and pitch pine(the sign of preparation), and so one had the picturesque spectacleof a rank, some two or three miles long, of tall, ascending columnsof coal-black smoke; a colonnade which supported a sable roof ofthe same smoke blended together and spreading abroad over the city.
Every outward-bound boat had its flag flying at the jack-staff,and sometimes a duplicate on the verge staff astern.
Two or three miles of mates were commanding and swearing with morethan usual emphasis; countless processions of freight barrelsand boxes were spinning athwart the levee and flying aboardthe stage-planks, belated passengers were dodging and skippingamong these frantic things, hoping to reach the forecastlecompanion way alive, but having their doubts about it;women with reticules and bandboxes were trying to keep upwith husbands freighted with carpet-sacks and crying babies,and making a failure of it by losing their heads in the whirland roar and general distraction; drays and baggage-vans wereclattering hither and thither in a wild hurry, every now andthen getting blocked and jammed together, and then during tenseconds one could not see them for the profanity, except vaguelyand dimly; every windlass connected with every forehatch,from one end of that long array of steamboats to the other,was keeping up a deafening whiz and whir, lowering freightinto the hold, and the half-naked crews of perspiring negroesthat 
By this time the hurricane and boiler decks of the steamerswould be packed and black with passengers
People came swarming ashore,overturning excited stragglers that were trying to swarm aboard.
One more moment later a long array of stage-planks was beinghauled in, each with its customary latest passenger clingingto the end of it with teeth, nails, and everything else,and the customary latest procrastinator making a wild springshoreward over his head.
Now a number of the boats slide backward into the stream,leaving wide gaps in the serried rank of steamers.
Citizens crowd the decks of boats that are not to go, in orderto see the sight
Steamer after steamer straightens herself up,gathers all her strength, and presently comes swinging by,under a tremendous head of steam, with flag flying,black smoke rolling, and her entire crew of firemen and deck-hands(usually swarthy negroes) massed together on the forecastle,the best 'voice' in the lot towering from the midst(being mounted on the capstan), waving his hat or a flag,and all roaring a mighty chorus, while the parting cannons boomand the multitudinous spectators swing their hats and huzza!
Steamer after steamer falls into line, and the stately procession goeswinging its flight up the river.
In the old times, whenever two fast boats started out on a race,with a big crowd of people looking on, it was inspiring to hearthe crews sing, especially if the time were night-fall, and the forecastlelit up with the red glare of the torch-baskets
Racing was royal fun.
The public always had an idea that racing was dangerous; whereas the oppositewas the case--that is, after the laws were passed which restrictedeach boat to just so many pounds of steam to the square inch.
No engineer was ever sleepy or careless when his heart was in a race.
He was constantly on the alert, trying gauge-cocks and watching things.
The dangerous place was on slow, plodding boats, where the engineers drowsedaround and allowed chips to get into the 'doctor' and shut off the watersupply from the boilers.
In the 'flush times' of steamboating, a race between two notoriouslyfleet steamers was an event of vast importance
The date was setfor it several weeks in advance, and from that time forward, the wholeMississippi Valley was in a state of consuming excitement
Politics andthe weather were dropped, and people talked only of the coming race.
As the time approached, the two steamers 'stripped' and got ready.
Every encumbrance that added weight, or exposed a resisting surfaceto wind or water, was removed, if the boat could possibly do without it.
The 'spars,' and sometimes even their supporting derricks, were sent ashore,and no means left to set the boat afloat in case she got aground.
Shotwell' ran their great race manyyears ago, it was said that pains were taken to scrape the gilding offthe fanciful device which hung between the 'Eclipse's' chimneys, and that forthat one trip the captain left off his kid gloves and had his head shaved.
But I always doubted these things.
If the boat was known to make her best speed when drawing five and a half feetforward and five feet aft, she was carefully loaded to that exact figure--she wouldn't enter a dose of homoeopathic pills on her manifest after that.
Hardly any passengers were taken, because they not only add weight but theynever will 'trim boat.'
They always run to the side when there is anythingto see, whereas a conscientious and experienced steamboatman would stick tothe center of the boat and part his hair in the middle with a spirit level.
No way-freights and no way-passengers were allowed, for the racers wouldstop only at the largest towns, and then it would be only 'touch and go.'
Coal flats and wood flats were contracted for beforehand, and these werekept ready to hitch on to the flying steamers at a moment's warning.
Double crews were carried, so that all work could be quickly done.
The chosen date being come, and all things in readiness,the two great steamers back into the stream, and lie therejockeying a moment, and apparently watching each other'sslightest movement, like sentient creatures; flags drooping,the pent steam shrieking through safety-valves, the black smokerolling and tumbling from the chimneys and darkening all the air.
People, people everywhere; the shores, the house-tops,the steamboats, the ships, are packed with them, and you knowthat the borders of the broad Mississippi are going to befringed with humanity thence northward twelve hundred miles,to welcome these racers.
Presently tall columns of steam burst from the 'scape-pipesof both steamers, two guns boom a good-bye, two red-shirted heroesmounted on capstans wave their small flags above the massed crewson the forecastles, two plaintive solos linger on the air a fewwaiting seconds, two mighty choruses burst forth--and here they come!
Brass bands bray Hail Columbia, huzza after huzza thunders fromthe shores, and the stately creatures go whistling by like the wind.
Those boats will never halt a moment between New Orleans and St
Louis,except for a second or two at large towns, or to hitch thirty-cordwood-boats alongside
You should be on board when they take a coupleof those wood-boats in tow and turn a swarm of men into each;by the time you have wiped your glasses and put them on, you will bewondering what has become of that wood.
Two nicely matched steamers will stay in sight of each other day after day.
They might even stay side by side, but for the fact that pilots are notall alike, and the smartest pilots will win the race
If one of the boats hasa 'lightning' pilot, whose 'partner' is a trifle his inferior, you can tellwhich one is on watch by noting whether that boat has gained ground or lostsome during each four-hour stretch
The shrewdest pilot can delay a boatif he has not a fine genius for steering
Steering is a very high art.
One must not keep a rudder dragging across a boat's stem if he wants to get upthe river fast.
There is a great difference in boats, of course
For a long time I was ona boat that was so slow we used to forget what year it was we left port in.
But of course this was at rare intervals
Ferryboats used to losevaluable trips because their passengers grew old and died, waiting for usto get by
This was at still rarer intervals
I had the documentsfor these occurrences, but through carelessness they have been mislaid.
This boat, the 'John J
Roe,' was so slow that when she finally sunkin Madrid Bend, it was five years before the owners heard of it.
That was always a confusing fact to me, but it is according to the record,any way
She was dismally slow; still, we often had prettyexciting times racing with islands, and rafts, and such things.
One trip, however, we did rather well
We went to St
Louis in sixteen days.
But even at this rattling gait I think we changed watches three timesin Fort Adams reach, which is five miles long
A 'reach' is a pieceof straight river, and of course the current drives through such a placein a pretty lively way.
That trip we went to Grand Gulf, from New Orleans, in four days(three hundred and forty miles); the 'Eclipse' and 'Shotwell'did it in one
We were nine days out, in the chute of 63(seven hundred miles); the 'Eclipse' and 'Shotwell' wentthere in two days
Something over a generation ago,a boat called the 'J
White' went from New Orleansto Cairo in three days, six hours, and forty-four minutes.
In 1853 the 'Eclipse' made the same trip in three days,three hours, and twenty minutes.
This last is called the fastest trip on record.
I will try to show that it was not
For this reason:the distance between New Orleans and Cairo, when the 'J
White'ran it, was about eleven hundred and six miles; consequently heraverage speed was a trifle over fourteen miles per hour.
In the 'Eclipse's' day the distance between the two ports had becomereduced to one thousand and eighty miles; consequently her averagespeed was a shade under fourteen and three-eighths miles per hour.
Lee's' time the distance had diminishedto about one thousand and thirty miles; consequently heraverage was about fourteen and one-eighth miles per hour.
Therefore the 'Eclipse's' was conspicuously the fastest time that hasever been made.
The officers of the Natchez claimed7 hours and 1 minute stoppage on account of fog and repairing machinery.
They give me an opportunity of introducing one of the Mississippi'soddest peculiarities,--that of shortening its length from time to time.
If you will throw a long, pliant apple-paring over your shoulder,it will pretty fairly shape itself into an average sectionof the Mississippi River; that is, the nine or ten hundred milesstretching from Cairo, Illinois, southward to New Orleans,the same being wonderfully crooked, with a brief straight bithere and there at wide intervals
The two hundred-mile stretchfrom Cairo northward to St
Louis is by no means so crooked,that being a rocky country which the river cannot cut much.
The water cuts the alluvial banks of the 'lower' river into deephorseshoe curves; so deep, indeed, that in some places if you were to getashore at one extremity of the horseshoe and walk across the neck,half or three quarters of a mile, you could sit down and rest a coupleof hours while your steamer was coming around the long elbow,at a speed of ten miles an hour, to take you aboard again.
When the river is rising fast, some scoundrel whose plantationis back in the country, and therefore of inferior value,has only to watch his chance, cut a little gutter across the narrowneck of land some dark night, and turn the water into it,and in a wonderfully short time a miracle has happened:  to wit,the whole Mississippi has taken possession of that little ditch,and placed the countryman's plantation on its bank (quadrupling itsvalue), and that other party's formerly valuable plantation findsitself away out yonder on a big island; the old watercourse aroundit will soon shoal up, boats cannot approach within ten milesof it, and down goes its value to a fourth of its former worth.
Watches are kept on those narrow necks, at needful times,and if a man happens to be caught cutting a ditch across them,the chances are all against his ever having another opportunity tocut a ditch.
Pray observe some of the effects of this ditching business.
Once there was a neck opposite Port Hudson, Louisiana, which was onlyhalf a mile across, in its narrowest place
You could walk acrossthere in fifteen minutes; but if you made the journey around the capeon a raft, you traveled thirty-five miles to accomplish the same thing.
In 1722 the river darted through that neck, deserted its old bed,and thus shortened itself thirty-five miles
In the same way itshortened itself twenty-five miles at Black Hawk Point in 1699.
Below Red River Landing, Raccourci cut-off was made (forty or fiftyyears ago, I think)
This shortened the river twenty-eight miles.
In our day, if you travel by river from the southernmost of thesethree cut-offs to the northernmost, you go only seventy miles.
To do the same thing a hundred and seventy-six years ago, one hadto go a hundred and fifty-eight miles!
--shortening of eighty-eightmiles in that trifling distance
At some forgotten time in the past,cut-offs were made above Vidalia, Louisiana; at island 92; at island 84;and at Hale's Point
These shortened the river, in the aggregate,seventy-seven miles.
Since my own day on the Mississippi, cut-offs have been made atHurricane Island; at island 100; at Napoleon, Arkansas; at Walnut Bend;and at Council Bend
These shortened the river, in the aggregate,sixty-seven miles
In my own time a cut-off was made at American Bend,which shortened the river ten miles or more.
Therefore, the Mississippi between Cairo and New Orleans was twelvehundred and fifteen miles long one hundred and seventy-six years ago.
It was eleven hundred and eighty after the cut-off of 1722.
It was one thousand and forty after the American Bend cut-off
It haslost sixty-seven miles since
Consequently its length is only ninehundred and seventy-three miles at present.
Now, if I wanted to be one of those ponderous scientific people, and 'let on'to prove what had occurred in the remote past by what had occurredin a given time in the recent past, or what will occur in the far futureby what has occurred in late years, what an opportunity is here!
Geology never had such a chance, nor such exact data to argue from!
Nor 'development of species,' either!
Glacial epochs are great things,but they are vague--vague
In the space of one hundred and seventy-six years the LowerMississippi has shortened itself two hundred and forty-two miles.
That is an average of a trifle over one mile and a third per year.
Therefore, any calm person, who is not blind or idiotic,can see that in the Old Oolitic Silurian Period,' just a millionyears ago next November, the Lower Mississippi River was upwardsof one million three hundred thousand miles long, and stuck outover the Gulf of Mexico like a fishing-rod
And by the same tokenany person can see that seven hundred and forty-two years from nowthe Lower Mississippi will be only a mile and three-quarters long,and Cairo and New Orleans will have joined their streets together,and be plodding comfortably along under a single mayor and a mutualboard of aldermen
There is something fascinating about science.
One gets such wholesale returns of conjecture out of such a triflinginvestment of fact.
When the water begins to flow through one of those ditches Ihave been speaking of, it is time for the people thereaboutsto move
The water cleaves the banks away like a knife.
By the time the ditch has become twelve or fifteen feet wide,the calamity is as good as accomplished, for no power on earthcan stop it now
When the width has reached a hundred yards,the banks begin to peel off in slices half an acre wide.
The current flowing around the bend traveled formerlyonly five miles an hour; now it is tremendously increasedby the shortening of the distance
I was on board the firstboat that tried to go through the cut-off at American Bend,but we did not get through
It was toward midnight, and a wildnight it was--thunder, lightning, and torrents of rain.
It was estimated that the current in the cut-off was makingabout fifteen or twenty miles an hour; twelve or thirteenwas the best our boat could do, even in tolerably slack water,therefore perhaps we were foolish to try the cut-off
Brown was ambitious, and he kept on trying.
The eddy running up the bank, under the 'point,' was aboutas swift as the current out in the middle; so we wouldgo flying up the shore like a lightning express train,get on a big head of steam, and 'stand by for a surge'when we struck the current that was whirling by the point.
But all our preparations were useless
The instant the current hitus it spun us around like a top, the water deluged the forecastle,and the boat careened so far over that one could hardly keephis feet
The next instant we were away down the river,clawing with might and main to keep out of the woods.
We tried the experiment four times
I stood on the forecastlecompanion way to see
It was astonishing to observe howsuddenly the boat would spin around and turn tail the momentshe emerged from the eddy and the current struck her nose.
The sounding concussion and the quivering would have beenabout the same if she had come full speed against a sand-bank.
Under the lightning flashes one could see the plantation cabinsand the goodly acres tumble into the river; and the crash theymade was not a bad effort at thunder
Once, when we spun around,we only missed a house about twenty feet, that had a light burningin the window; and in the same instant that house went overboard.
Nobody could stay on our forecastle; the water swept acrossit in a torrent every time we plunged athwart the current.
At the end of our fourth effort we brought up in the woods two milesbelow the cut-off; all the country there was overflowed, of course.
A day or two later the cut-off was three-quarters of a mile wide,and boats passed up through it without much difficulty, and sosaved ten miles.
The old Raccourci cut-off reduced the river's length twenty-eight miles.
There used to be a tradition connected with it
It was said that a boatcame along there in the night and went around the enormous elbowthe usual way, the pilots not knowing that the cut-off had been made.
It was a grisly, hideous night, and all shapes were vague and distorted.
The old bend had already begun to fill up, and the boat got torunning away from mysterious reefs, and occasionally hitting one.
The perplexed pilots fell to swearing, and finally uttered the entirelyunnecessary wish that they might never get out of that place.
As always happens in such cases, that particular prayer was answered,and the others neglected
So to this day that phantom steamer is stillbutting around in that deserted river, trying to find her way out.
More than one grave watchman has sworn to me that on drizzly,dismal nights, he has glanced fearfully down that forgotten riveras he passed the head of the island, and seen the faint glowof the specter steamer's lights drifting through the distant gloom,and heard the muffled cough of her 'scape-pipes and the plaintive cryof her leadsmen.
In the absence of further statistics, I beg to close this chapterwith one more reminiscence of 'Stephen.'
Most of the captains and pilots held Stephen's note forborrowed sums, ranging from two hundred and fifty dollars upward.
Stephen never paid one of these notes, but he was very promptand very zealous about renewing them every twelve months.
Of course there came a time, at last, when Stephen couldno longer borrow of his ancient creditors; so he wasobliged to lie in wait for new men who did not know him.
Such a victim was good-hearted, simple natured young Yates(I use a fictitious name, but the real name began, as thisone does, with a Y)
Young Yates graduated as a pilot,got a berth, and when the month was ended and he steppedup to the clerk's office and received his two hundredand fifty dollars in crisp new bills, Stephen was there!
His silvery tongue began to wag, and in a very little whileYates's two hundred and fifty dollars had changed hands.
The fact was soon known at pilot headquarters, and the amusementand satisfaction of the old creditors were large and generous.
But innocent Yates never suspected that Stephen's promiseto pay promptly at the end of the week was a worthless one.
Yates called for his money at the stipulated time;Stephen sweetened him up and put him off a week
He called then,according to agreement, and came away sugar-coated again,but suffering under another postponement
So the thing went on.
Yates haunted Stephen week after week, to no purpose, and at lastgave it up
And then straightway Stephen began to haunt Yates!
Wherever Yates appeared, there was the inevitable Stephen.
And not only there, but beaming with affection and gushingwith apologies for not being able to pay
By and by,whenever poor Yates saw him coming, he would turn and fly,and drag his company with him, if he had company; but itwas of no use; his debtor would run him down and corner him.
Panting and red-faced, Stephen would come, with outstretched handsand eager eyes, invade the conversation, shake both of Yates'sarms loose in their sockets, and begin--
'My, what a race I've had!
I saw you didn't see me,and so I clapped on all steam for fear I'd miss you entirely.
And here you are!
Well, sir, I had to lean up againsta building and cry
So help me goodness, I couldn't help it.
The man that owned the place come out cleaning up with a rag,and said he didn't like to have people cry against his building,and then it seemed to me that the whole world had turnedagainst me, and it wasn't any use to live any more; and comingalong an hour ago, suffering no man knows what agony, I met JimWilson and paid him the two hundred and fifty dollars on account;and to think that here you are, now, and I haven't got a cent!
But as sure as I am standing here on this ground on thisparticular brick,--there, I've scratched a mark on the brickto remember it by,--I'll borrow that money and pay it overto you at twelve o'clock sharp, tomorrow!
Now, stand so;let me look at you just once more.'
And so on
Yates's life became a burden to him
He could not escape hisdebtor and his debtor's awful sufferings on account of not being able to pay.
He dreaded to show himself in the street, lest he should find Stephen lyingin wait for him at the comer.
Bogart's billiard saloon was a great resort for pilots in those days.
They met there about as much to exchange river news as to play.
One morning Yates was there; Stephen was there, too, but kept outof sight
But by and by, when about all the pilots had arrivedwho were in town, Stephen suddenly appeared in the midst, and rushedfor Yates as for a long-lost brother.
'OH, I am so glad to see you!
Oh my soul, the sight of you issuch a comfort to my eyes!
Gentlemen, I owe all of you money;among you I owe probably forty thousand dollars
I want to pay it;I intend to pay it every last cent of it
You all know,without my telling you, what sorrow it has cost me to remain so longunder such deep obligations to such patient and generous friends;but the sharpest pang I suffer--by far the sharpest--is fromthe debt I owe to this noble young man here; and I have come to thisplace this morning especially to make the announcement that Ihave at last found a method whereby I can pay off all my debts!
And most especially I wanted HIM to be here when I announced it.
Yes, my faithful friend,--my benefactor, I've found the method!
I've found the method to pay off all my debts, and you'll get your money!'
Hope dawned in Yates's eye; then Stephen, beaming benignantly,and placing his hand upon Yates's head, added, 'I am going to pay themoff in alphabetical order!'
Then he turned and disappeared
The full significance of Stephen's 'method'did not dawn upon the perplexed and musing crowd for some two minutes;and then Yates murmured with a sigh--
He won't get any further than the C'sin THIS world, and I reckon that after a good deal of eternity has wastedaway in the next one, I'll still be referred to up there as "that poor,ragged pilot that came here from St
Louis in the early days!
I Take a Few Extra Lessons
DURING the two or two and a half years of my apprenticeship,I served under many pilots, and had experience of manykinds of steamboatmen and many varieties of steamboats;for it was not always convenient for Mr
Bixby to have mewith him, and in such cases he sent me with somebody else.
I am to this day profiting somewhat by that experience;for in that brief, sharp schooling, I got personally and familiarlyacquainted with about all the different types of human naturethat are to be found in fiction, biography, or history.
The fact is daily borne in upon me, that the average shore-employmentrequires as much as forty years to equip a man with this sortof an education
When I say I am still profiting by this thing,I do not mean that it has constituted me a judge of men--no, it has not done that; for judges of men are born, not made.
My profit is various in kind and degree; but the feature of itwhich I value most is the zest which that early experience hasgiven to my later reading
When I find a well-drawn characterin fiction or biography, I generally take a warm personalinterest in him, for the reason that I have known him before--met him on the river.
The figure that comes before me oftenest, out of the shadows of thatvanished time, is that of Brown, of the steamer 'Pennsylvania'--the manreferred to in a former chapter, whose memory was so good and tiresome.
He was a middle-aged, long, slim, bony, smooth-shaven, horse-faced, ignorant,stingy, malicious, snarling, fault hunting, mote-magnifying tyrant.
I early got the habit of coming on watch with dread at my heart.
No matter how good a time I might have been having with the off-watch below,and no matter how high my spirits might be when I started aloft, my soulbecame lead in my body the moment I approached the pilot-house.
I still remember the first time I ever entered the presence of that man.
The boat had backed out from St
Louis and was 'straightening down;'I ascended to the pilot-house in high feather, and very proudto be semi-officially a member of the executive family of so fastand famous a boat
Brown was at the wheel
I paused in the middleof the room, all fixed to make my bow, but Brown did not look around.
I thought he took a furtive glance at me out of the corner of his eye,but as not even this notice was repeated, I judged I had been mistaken.
By this time he was picking his way among some dangerous 'breaks' abreastthe woodyards; therefore it would not be proper to interrupt him; so Istepped softly to the high bench and took a seat.
There was silence for ten minutes; then my new boss turnedand inspected me deliberately and painstakingly from headto heel for about--as it seemed to me--a quarter of an hour.
After which he removed his countenance and I saw it no morefor some seconds; then it came around once more, and thisquestion greeted me--
'Are you Horace Bigsby's cub?'
After this there was a pause and another inspection
'What's your name?'
I told him
He repeated it after me
It was probably the onlything he ever forgot; for although I was with him many monthshe never addressed himself to me in any other way than 'Here!'
and then his command followed.
'Where was you born?'
'In Florida, Missouri.'
'Dern sight better staid there!'
By means of a dozen or so of pretty direct questions, he pumpedmy family history out of me.
The leads were going now, in the first crossing
This interruptedthe inquest
When the leads had been laid in, he resumed--
'How long you been on the river?'
'Where'd you get them shoes?'
I gave him the information.
'Hold up your foot!'
I did so
He stepped back, examined the shoe minutely and contemptuously,scratching his head thoughtfully, tilting his high sugar-loaf hat well forwardto facilitate the operation, then ejaculated, 'Well, I'll be dod derned!'
and returned to his wheel.
What occasion there was to be dod derned about it is a thingwhich is still as much of a mystery to me now as it was then.
It must have been all of fifteen minutes--fifteen minutesof dull, homesick silence--before that long horse-faceswung round upon me again--and then, what a change!
It was as red as fire, and every muscle in it was working.
Now came this shriek--
I lit in the middle of the floor, shot there by the electricsuddenness of the surprise
As soon as I could get my voice I said,apologetically:--'I have had no orders, sir.'
My, what a fine bird we are!
We must have ORDERS!
Our father was a GENTLEMAN--owned slaves--and we've been to SCHOOL.
Yes, WE are a gentleman, TOO, and got to have ORDERS!
ORDERS, is it?
ORDERS is what you want!
Dod dern my skin, I'LL learn you to swell yourselfup and blow around here about your dod-derned ORDERS!
I moved back a step or two, and stood as in a dream, all my sensesstupefied by this frantic assault.
'What you standing there for?
Take that ice-pitcher down tothe texas-tender-come, move along, and don't you be all day about it!'
'I couldn't find the texas-tender; I had to go all the way to the pantry.'
Derned likely story!
Fill up the stove.'
I proceeded to do so
He watched me like a cat.
Deadest numskull I ever saw--ain't even got sense enough to load up a stove.
All through the watch this sort of thing went on
Yes, and thesubsequent watches were much like it, during a stretch of months.
As I have said, I soon got the habit of coming on duty with dread.
The moment I was in the presence, even in the darkest night,I could feel those yellow eyes upon me, and knew their ownerwas watching for a pretext to spit out some venom on me.
WHERE in the nation you going to?
Pull her down!
pull her down!
You going to hold her all day?
Let her go--meet her!
meet her!'
Then he would jump from the bench, snatch the wheel from me,and meet her himself, pouring out wrath upon me all the time.
George Ritchie was the other pilot's cub
He was havinggood times now; for his boss, George Ealer, was as kindheartedas Brown wasn't
Ritchie had steeled for Brown the season before;consequently he knew exactly how to entertain himself and plague me,all by the one operation
Whenever I took the wheel for a momenton Ealer's watch, Ritchie would sit back on the bench and play Brown,with continual ejaculations of 'Snatch her!
snatch her!
I TOLD you not to cramp that reef G'way from the wheel!'
So I always had a rough time of it, no matter whose watch it was;and sometimes it seemed to me that Ritchie's good-natured badgeringwas pretty nearly as aggravating as Brown's dead-earnest nagging.
I often wanted to kill Brown, but this would not answer.
A cub had to take everything his boss gave, in the way ofvigorous comment and criticism; and we all believed that therewas a United States law making it a penitentiary offense tostrike or threaten a pilot who was on duty
However, I couldIMAGINE myself killing Brown; there was no law against that;and that was the thing I used always to do the moment I was abed.
Instead of going over my river in my mind as was my duty,I threw business aside for pleasure, and killed Brown.
I killed Brown every night for months; not in old, stale,commonplace ways, but in new and picturesque ones;--ways that weresometimes surprising for freshness of design and ghastliness ofsituation and environment.
Brown was ALWAYS watching for a pretext to find fault;and if he could find no plausible pretext, he would invent one.
He would scold you for shaving a shore, and for not shaving it;for hugging a bar, and for not hugging it; for 'pulling down'when not invited, and for not pulling down when not invited;for firing up without orders, and for waiting FOR orders
In a word,it was his invariable rule to find fault with EVERYTHING you did;and another invariable rule of his was to throw all his remarks(to you) into the form of an insult.
One day we were approaching New Madrid, bound down and heavily laden.
Brown was at one side of the wheel, steering; I was at the other,standing by to 'pull down' or 'shove up.'
He cast a furtive glance at meevery now and then
I had long ago learned what that meant; viz.
, he wastrying to invent a trap for me
I wondered what shape it was going to take.
This was simply BOUND to be a success; nothing could prevent it;for he had never allowed me to round the boat to before;consequently, no matter how I might do the thing, he couldfind free fault with it
He stood back there with his greedyeye on me, and the result was what might have been foreseen:I lost my head in a quarter of a minute, and didn't know what Iwas about; I started too early to bring the boat around,but detected a green gleam of joy in Brown's eye, and correctedmy mistake; I started around once more while too high up,but corrected myself again in time; I made other false moves,and still managed to save myself; but at last I grew so confusedand anxious that I tumbled into the very worst blunder of all--I got too far down before beginning to fetch the boat around.
Brown's chance was come.
His face turned red with passion; he made one bound,hurled me across the house with a sweep of his arm,spun the wheel down, and began to pour out a stream ofvituperation upon me which lasted till he was out of breath.
In the course of this speech he called me all the differentkinds of hard names he could think of, and once or twice Ithought he was even going to swear--but he didn't this time.'
Dod dern' was the nearest he ventured to the luxury of swearing,for he had been brought up with a wholesome respect for futurefire and brimstone.
That was an uncomfortable hour; for there was a big audienceon the hurricane deck
When I went to bed that night,I killed Brown in seventeen different ways-all of them new.
Brown and I Exchange Compliments
Two trips later, I got into serious trouble
Brown was steering;I was 'pulling down.'
My younger brother appeared on the hurricane deck,and shouted to Brown to stop at some landing or other a mile or so below.
Brown gave no intimation that he had heard anything
But that washis way:  he never condescended to take notice of an under clerk.
The wind was blowing; Brown was deaf (although he always pretendedhe wasn't), and I very much doubted if he had heard the order.
If I had two heads, I would have spoken; but as I had only one, it seemedjudicious to take care of it; so I kept still.
Presently, sure enough, we went sailing by that plantation.
Captain Klinefelter appeared on the deck, and said--
'Let her come around, sir, let her come around.
Didn't Henry tell you to land here?'
'I sent him up to do, it.'
'He did come up; and that's all the good it done, the dod-derned fool.
He never said anything.'
'Didn't YOU hear him?'
asked the captain of me.
Of course I didn't want to be mixed up in this business,but there was no way to avoid it; so I said--
I knew what Brown's next remark would be, before he uttered it; it was--
Shut your mouth!
you never heard anything of the kind.'
I closed my mouth according to instructions
An hour later,Henry entered the pilot-house, unaware of what had been going on.
He was a thoroughly inoffensive boy, and I was sorry to seehim come, for I knew Brown would have no pity on him.
Brown glared at me in unaffected surprise; and for as much as a momenthe was entirely speechless; then he shouted to me--
'I'll attend to your case in half a minute!'
then to Henry,'And you leave the pilot-house; out with you!'
It was pilot law, and must be obeyed
The boy started out,and even had his foot on the upper step outside the door, when Brown,with a sudden access of fury, picked up a ten-pound lump of coaland sprang after him; but I was between, with a heavy stool,and I hit Brown a good honest blow which stretched-him out.
I had committed the crime of crimes--I had lifted my hand againsta pilot on duty!
I supposed I was booked for the penitentiary sure,and couldn't be booked any surer if I went on and squared my long accountwith this person while I had the chance; consequently I stuck to himand pounded him with my fists a considerable time--I do not know how long,the pleasure of it probably made it seem longer than it really was;--but in the end he struggled free and jumped up and sprang to the wheel:a very natural solicitude, for, all this time, here was this steamboattearing down the river at the rate of fifteen miles an hour and nobody atthe helm!
However, Eagle Bend was two miles wide at this bank-full stage,and correspondingly long and deep; and the boat was steering herselfstraight down the middle and taking no chances
Still, that was only luck--a body MIGHT have found her charging into the woods.
Perceiving, at a glance, that the 'Pennsylvania' was in no danger,Brown gathered up the big spy-glass, war-club fashion, and orderedme out of the pilot-house with more than Comanche bluster.
But I was not afraid of him now; so, instead of going, I tarried,and criticized his grammar; I reformed his ferocious speeches for him,and put them into good English, calling his attention to the advantageof pure English over the bastard dialect of the Pennsylvaniancollieries whence he was extracted
He could have done his partto admiration in a cross-fire of mere vituperation, of course;but he was not equipped for this species of controversy;so he presently laid aside his glass and took the wheel,muttering and shaking his head; and I retired to the bench.
The racket had brought everybody to the hurricane deck, and I trembledwhen I saw the old captain looking up from the midst of the crowd.
I said to myself, 'Now I AM done for!'
I thought I wouldgo and hide somewhere till I got a chance to slide ashore
So I slippedout of the pilot-house, and down the steps, and around to the texas door--and was in the act of gliding within, when the captain confronted me!
I dropped my head, and he stood over me in silence a moment or two,then said impressively--
I dropped into his wake; he led the way to his parlor in the forwardend of the texas
We were alone, now
He closed the after door;then moved slowly to the forward one and closed that
He sat down;I stood before him
'Do you know that that is a very serious matter?'
'Are you aware that this boat was plowing down the river fullyfive minutes with no one at the wheel?'
'Did you strike him first?'
'A stool, sir.'
'Did it knock him down?'
'He--he fell, sir.'
'Did you follow it up?
Did you do anything further?'
'What did you do?'
'Pounded him, sir.'
'Did you pound him much?
--that is, severely?'
'One might call it that, sir, maybe.'
'I'm deuced glad of it!
Hark ye, never mention that I said that.
You have been guilty of a great crime; and don't you ever beguilty of it again, on this boat
BUT--lay for him ashore!
Give him a good sound thrashing, do you hear?
I'll pay the expenses.
Now go--and mind you, not a word of this to anybody
Clear out with you!
--you've been guilty of a great crime, you whelp!'
I slid out, happy with the sense of a close shave and a mighty deliverance;and I heard him laughing to himself and slapping his fat thighs after I hadclosed his door.
When Brown came off watch he went straight to the captain,who was talking with some passengers on the boiler deck,and demanded that I be put ashore in New Orleans--and added--
'I'll never turn a wheel on this boat again while that cub stays.'
The captain said--
'But he needn't come round when you are on watch, Mr
'I won't even stay on the same boat with him
One of us hasgot to go ashore.'
'Very well,' said the captain, 'let it be yourself;'and resumed his talk with the passengers.
During the brief remainder of the trip, I knew how an emancipated slave feels;for I was an emancipated slave myself
While we lay at landings,I listened to George Ealer's flute; or to his readings from his two bibles,that is to say, Goldsmith and Shakespeare; or I played chess with him--and would have beaten him sometimes, only he always took back his last moveand ran the game out differently.
WE lay three days in New Orleans, but the captain did not succeedin finding another pilot; so he proposed that I should standa daylight watch, and leave the night watches to George Ealer.
But I was afraid; I had never stood a watch of any sort by myself,and I believed I should be sure to get into trouble in the head ofsome chute, or ground the boat in a near cut through some bar or other.
Brown remained in his place; but he would not travel with me.
So the captain gave me an order on the captain of the 'A
Lacey,'for a passage to St
Louis, and said he would find a newpilot there and my steersman's berth could then be resumed.
The 'Lacey' was to leave a couple of days after the 'Pennsylvania.'
The night before the 'Pennsylvania' left, Henry and I satchatting on a freight pile on the levee till midnight.
The subject of the chat, mainly, was one which I think wehad not exploited before--steamboat disasters
One was thenon its way to us, little as we suspected it; the water whichwas to make the steam which should cause it, was washing pastsome point fifteen hundred miles up the river while we talked;--but it would arrive at the right time and the right place.
We doubted if persons not clothed with authority were of muchuse in cases of disaster and attendant panic; still, they mightbe of SOME use; so we decided that if a disaster ever fellwithin our experience we would at least stick to the boat,and give such minor service as chance might throw in the way.
Henry remembered this, afterward, when the disaster came,and acted accordingly.
The 'Lacey' started up the river two days behind the 'Pennsylvania.'
We touched at Greenville, Mississippi, a couple of days out,and somebody shouted--
'The "Pennsylvania" is blown up at Ship Island, and a hundredand fifty lives lost!'
At Napoleon, Arkansas, the same evening, we got an extra,issued by a Memphis paper, which gave some particulars.
It mentioned my brother, and said he was not hurt.
Further up the river we got a later extra
My brother wasagain mentioned; but this time as being hurt beyond help.
We did not get full details of the catastrophe until we reached Memphis.
The 'Pennsylvania'was creeping along, north of Ship Island, about sixty miles belowMemphis on a half-head of steam, towing a wood-flat which was fastbeing emptied
George Ealer was in the pilot-house-alone, I think;the second engineer and a striker had the watch in the engine room;the second mate had the watch on deck; George Black, Mr
Wood,and my brother, clerks, were asleep, as were also Brown andthe head engineer, the carpenter, the chief mate, and one striker;Captain Klinefelter was in the barber's chair, and the barber waspreparing to shave him
There were a good many cabin passengers aboard,and three or four hundred deck passengers--so it was said at the time--and not very many of them were astir
The wood being nearly all outof the flat now, Ealer rang to 'come ahead' full steam, and the nextmoment four of the eight boilers exploded with a thunderous crash,and the whole forward third of the boat was hoisted toward the sky!
The main part of the mass, with the chimneys, dropped upon the boat again,a mountain of riddled and chaotic rubbish--and then, after a little,fire broke out.
The carpenter was still stretched upon his mattress when he struckthe water seventy-five feet from the boat
Brown, the pilot,and George Black, chief clerk, were never seen or heard of afterthe explosion
The barber's chair, with Captain Klinefelterin it and unhurt, was left with its back overhanging vacancy--everything forward of it, floor and all, had disappeared;and the stupefied barber, who was also unhurt, stood with one toeprojecting over space, still stirring his lather unconsciously,and saying, not a word.
When George Ealer saw the chimneys plunging aloft in front of him,he knew what the matter was; so he muffled his face in the lapels ofhis coat, and pressed both hands there tightly to keep this protectionin its place so that no steam could get to his nose or mouth.
He had ample time to attend to these details while he was going upand returning
He presently landed on top of the unexploded boilers,forty feet below the former pilot-house, accompanied by his wheeland a rain of other stuff, and enveloped in a cloud of scalding steam.
All of the many who breathed that steam, died; none escaped.
But Ealer breathed none of it
He made his way to the free airas quickly as he could; and when the steam cleared away he returnedand climbed up on the boilers again, and patiently huntedout each and every one of his chessmen and the several jointsof his flute.
By this time the fire was beginning to threaten
Shrieks andgroans filled the air
A great many persons had been scalded,a great many crippled; the explosion had driven an iron crowbarthrough one man's body--I think they said he was a priest.
He did not die at once, and his sufferings were very dreadful.
A young French naval cadet, of fifteen, son of a French admiral,was fearfully scalded, but bore his tortures manfully.
Both mates were badly scalded, but they stood to theirposts, nevertheless
They drew the wood-boat aft, and theyand the captain fought back the frantic herd of frightenedimmigrants till the wounded could be brought there and placedin safety first.
By this time the fire was making fierce headway, and severalpersons who were imprisoned under the ruins were begging piteouslyfor help
All efforts to conquer the fire proved fruitless;so the buckets were presently thrown aside and the officersfell-to with axes and tried to cut the prisoners out.
A striker was one of the captives; he said he was not injured,but could not free himself; and when he saw that the fire waslikely to drive away the workers, he begged that some one wouldshoot him, and thus save him from the more dreadful death.
The fire did drive the axmen away, and they had to listen,helpless, to this poor fellow's supplications till the flamesended his miseries.
The fire drove all into the wood-flat that could be accommodated there;it was cut adrift, then, and it and the burning steamer floateddown the river toward Ship Island
They moored the flat at the headof the island, and there, unsheltered from the blazing sun,the half-naked occupants had to remain, without food or stimulants,or help for their hurts, during the rest of the day
A steamercame along, finally, and carried the unfortunates to Memphis,and there the most lavish assistance was at once forthcoming.
By this time Henry was insensible
The physicians examined hisinjuries and saw that they were fatal, and naturally turned theirmain attention to patients who could be saved.
Forty of the wounded were placed upon pallets on the floor of a greatpublic hall, and among these was Henry
There the ladies of Memphiscame every day, with flowers, fruits, and dainties and delicaciesof all kinds, and there they remained and nursed the wounded.
All the physicians stood watches there, and all the medical students;and the rest of the town furnished money, or whatever else was wanted.
And Memphis knew how to do all these things well; for many adisaster like the 'Pennsylvania's' had happened near her doors,and she was experienced, above all other cities on the river,in the gracious office of the Good Samaritan'
The sight I saw when I entered that large hall was new and strange to me.
Two long rows of prostrate forms--more than forty, in all--and every faceand head a shapeless wad of loose raw cotton
It was a gruesome spectacle.
I watched there six days and nights, and a very melancholy experience it was.
There was one daily incident which was peculiarly depressing:this was the removal of the doomed to a chamber apart
It was donein order that the MORALE of the other patients might not be injuriouslyaffected by seeing one of their number in the death-agony
The fated onewas always carried out with as little stir as possible, and the stretcherwas always hidden from sight by a wall of assistants; but no matter:everybody knew what that cluster of bent forms, with its muffledstep and its slow movement meant; and all eyes watched it wistfully,and a shudder went abreast of it like a wave.
I saw many poor fellows removed to the 'death-room,' and saw them nomore afterward
But I saw our chief mate carried thither more than once.
His hurts were frightful, especially his scalds
He was clothed inlinseed oil and raw cotton to his waist, and resembled nothing human.
He was often out of his mind; and then his pains would make him raveand shout and sometimes shriek
Then, after a period of dumb exhaustion,his disordered imagination would suddenly transform the great apartmentinto a forecastle, and the hurrying throng of nurses into the crew;and he would come to a sitting posture and shout, 'Hump yourselves,HUMP yourselves, you petrifactions, snail-bellies, pall-bearers!
goingto be all DAY getting that hatful of freight out?'
and supplementthis explosion with a firmament-obliterating irruption or profanitywhich nothing could stay or stop till his crater was empty
And nowand then while these frenzies possessed him, he would tear off handfulsof the cotton and expose his cooked flesh to view
It was horrible.
It was bad for the others, of course--this noise and these exhibitions;so the doctors tried to give him morphine to quiet him
But, in his mindor out of it, he would not take it
He said his wife had been killedby that treacherous drug, and he would die before he would take it.
He suspected that the doctors were concealing it in his ordinary medicinesand in his water--so he ceased from putting either to his lips.
Once, when he had been without water during two sweltering days,he took the dipper in his hand, and the sight of the limpid fluid,and the misery of his thirst, tempted him almost beyond his strength;but he mastered himself and threw it away, and after that he allowedno more to be brought near him
Three times I saw him carriedto the death-room, insensible and supposed to be dying; but each timehe revived, cursed his attendants, and demanded to be taken back.
He lived to be mate of a steamboat again.
But he was the only one who went to the death-room and returned alive.
Dr
Peyton, a principal physician, and rich in all the attributesthat go to constitute high and flawless character, did all thateducated judgment and trained skill could do for Henry; but, as thenewspapers had said in the beginning, his hurts were past help.
On the evening of the sixth day his wandering mind busied itself withmatters far away, and his nerveless fingers 'picked at his coverlet.'
His hour had struck; we bore him to the death-room, poor boy.
A Section in My Biography
IN due course I got my license
I was a pilot now, full fledged.
I dropped into casual employments; no misfortunes resulting,intermittent work gave place to steady and protracted engagements.
Time drifted smoothly and prosperously on, and I supposed--and hoped--that I was going to follow the river the rest of my days, and dieat the wheel when my mission was ended
But by and by the war came,commerce was suspended, my occupation was gone.
I had to seek another livelihood
So I became a silver minerin Nevada; next, a newspaper reporter; next, a gold miner,in California; next, a reporter in San Francisco; next, a specialcorrespondent in the Sandwich Islands; next, a roving correspondentin Europe and the East; next, an instructional torch-bearer onthe lecture platform; and, finally, I became a scribbler of books,and an immovable fixture among the other rocks of New England.
In so few words have I disposed of the twenty-one slow-driftingyears that have come and gone since I last looked from the windowsof a pilot-house.
Let us resume, now.
I Return to My Muttons
AFTER twenty-one years' absence, I felt a very strong desireto see the river again, and the steamboats, and such ofthe boys as might be left; so I resolved to go out there.
I enlisted a poet for company, and a stenographer to 'take him down,'and started westward about the middle of April.
As I proposed to make notes, with a view to printing,I took some thought as to methods of procedure.
I reflected that if I were recognized, on the river, I shouldnot be as free to go and come, talk, inquire, and spy around,as I should be if unknown; I remembered that it was the customof steamboatmen in the old times to load up the confidingstranger with the most picturesque and admirable lies, and putthe sophisticated friend off with dull and ineffectual facts:so I concluded, that, from a business point of view, it wouldbe an advantage to disguise our party with fictitious names.
The idea was certainly good, but it bred infinite bother;for although Smith, Jones, and Johnson are easy namesto remember when there is no occasion to remember them,it is next to impossible to recollect them when they are wanted.
How do criminals manage to keep a brand-new ALIAS in mind?
This is a great mystery
I was innocent; and yet was seldomable to lay my hand on my new name when it was needed;and it seemed to me that if I had had a crime on my conscienceto further confuse me, I could never have kept the name by meat all.
Grace and picturesqueness dropgradually out of it as one travels away from New York.'
I find that among my notes
It makes no differencewhich direction you take, the fact remains the same.
Whether you move north, south, east, or west, no matter:you can get up in the morning and guess how far you have come,by noting what degree of grace and picturesqueness is bythat time lacking in the costumes of the new passengers,--I do not mean of the women alone, but of both sexes.
It may be that CARRIAGE is at the bottom of this thing;and I think it is; for there are plenty of ladies and gentlemenin the provincial cities whose garments are all made by the besttailors and dressmakers of New York; yet this has no perceptibleeffect upon the grand fact:  the educated eye never mistakesthose people for New-Yorkers
No, there is a godless grace,and snap, and style about a born and bred New-Yorker which mereclothing cannot effect.
This morning, struck into the region of full goatees-sometimesaccompanied by a mustache, but only occasionally.'
It was odd to come upon this thick crop of an obsolete anduncomely fashion; it was like running suddenly across a forgottenacquaintance whom you had supposed dead for a generation.
The goatee extends over a wide extent of country; and is accompaniedby an iron-clad belief in Adam and the biblical history of creation,which has not suffered from the assaults of the scientists.
At the railway stations the loafers carry BOTHhands in their breeches pockets; it was observable, heretofore,that one hand was sometimes out of doors,--here, never.
This is an important fact in geography.'
If the loafers determined the character of a country, it wouldbe still more important, of course.
'Heretofore, all along, the station-loafer has been often observed to scratchone shin with the other foot; here, these remains of activity are wanting.
This has an ominous look.'
By and by, we entered the tobacco-chewing region.
Fifty years ago, the tobacco-chewing region covered the Union.
It is greatly restricted now.
Next, boots began to appear
Not in strong force, however.
Later--away down the Mississippi--they became the rule.
They disappeared from other sections of the Union with the mud;no doubt they will disappear from the river villages, also,when proper pavements come in.
We reached St
Louis at ten o'clock at night
At the counterof the hotel I tendered a hurriedly-invented fictitious name,with a miserable attempt at careless ease
The clerk paused,and inspected me in the compassionate way in which one inspectsa respectable person who is found in doubtful circumstances;then he said--
'It's all right; I know what sort of a room you want.
Used to clerk at the St
James, in New York.'
An unpromising beginning for a fraudulent career
We started tothe supper room, and met two other men whom I had known elsewhere.
How odd and unfair it is:  wicked impostors go around lecturing undermy NOM DE GUERRE and nobody suspects them; but when an honest manattempts an imposture, he is exposed at once.
One thing seemed plain:  we must start down the river the next day,if people who could not be deceived were going to crop up at this rate:an unpalatable disappointment, for we had hoped to have a week in St
Louis.
The Southern was a good hotel, and we could have had a comfortabletime there
It is large, and well conducted, and its decorations donot make one cry, as do those of the vast Palmer House, in Chicago.
True, the billiard-tables were of the Old Silurian Period, and the cues andballs of the Post-Pliocene; but there was refreshment in this, not discomfort;for there is rest and healing in the contemplation of antiquities.
The most notable absence observable in the billiard-room, was theabsence of the river man
If he was there he had taken in his sign,he was in disguise
I saw there none of the swell airs and graces,and ostentatious displays of money, and pompous squanderings of it,which used to distinguish the steamboat crowd from the dry-land crowdin the bygone days, in the thronged billiard-rooms of St
Louis.
In those times, the principal saloons were always populous with river men;given fifty players present, thirty or thirty-five were likelyto be from the river
But I suspected that the ranks were thin now,and the steamboatmen no longer an aristocracy
Why, in my time theyused to call the 'barkeep' Bill, or Joe, or Tom, and slap him onthe shoulder; I watched for that
But none of these people did it.
Manifestly a glory that once was had dissolved and vanished away inthese twenty-one years.
When I went up to my room, I found there the young man called Rogers, crying.
Rogers was not his name; neither was Jones, Brown, Dexter, Ferguson, Bascom,nor Thompson; but he answered to either of these that a body found handyin an emergency; or to any other name, in fact, if he perceived that youmeant him
'I could if I had some other water to wash it with.'
Here was a thing which had not changed; a score of years had not affectedthis water's mulatto complexion in the least; a score of centurieswould succeed no better, perhaps
It comes out of the turbulent,bank-caving Missouri, and every tumblerful of it holds nearly an acreof land in solution
I got this fact from the bishop of the diocese.
If you will let your glass stand half an hour, you can separatethe land from the water as easy as Genesis; and then you will findthem both good:  the one good to eat, the other good to drink.
The land is very nourishing, the water is thoroughly wholesome.
The one appeases hunger; the other, thirst
But the nativesdo not take them separately, but together, as nature mixed them.
When they find an inch of mud in the bottom of a glass,they stir it up, and then take the draught as they would gruel.
It is difficult for a stranger to get used to this batter, but onceused to it he will prefer it to water
This is really the case.
It is good for steamboating, and good to drink; but it is worthlessfor all other purposes, except baptizing.
Next morning, we drove around town in the rain.
The city seemed but little changed
It WAS greatly changed,but it did not seem so; because in St
Louis, as in Londonand Pittsburgh, you can't persuade a new thing to look new;the coal smoke turns it into an antiquity the moment you takeyour hand off it
The place had just about doubled its size,since I was a resident of it, and was now become a cityof 400,000 inhabitants; still, in the solid business parts,it looked about as it had looked formerly
Yet I am sure thereis not as much smoke in St
Louis now as there used to be.
The smoke used to bank itself in a dense billowy black canopy overthe town, and hide the sky from view
This shelter is very muchthinner now; still, there is a sufficiency of smoke there, I think.
I heard no complaint.
However, on the outskirts changes were apparent enough; notably indwelling-house architecture
The fine new homes are noble and beautifuland modern
They stand by themselves, too, with green lawns around them;whereas the dwellings of a former day are packed together in blocks,and are all of one pattern, with windows all alike, set in an archedframe-work of twisted stone; a sort of house which was handsome enoughwhen it was rarer.
There was another change--the Forest Park
This was new to me.
It is beautiful and very extensive, and has the excellent meritof having been made mainly by nature
There are other parks,and fine ones, notably Tower Grove and the Botanical Gardens;for St
Louis interested herself in such improvements at an earlierday than did the most of our cities.
The first time I ever saw St
Louis, I could have bought it for sixmillion dollars, and it was the mistake of my life that I did not do it.
It was bitter now to look abroad over this domed and steepled metropolis,this solid expanse of bricks and mortar stretching away on every handinto dim, measure-defying distances, and remember that I had allowedthat opportunity to go by
Why I should have allowed it to go by seems,of course, foolish and inexplicable to-day, at a first glance; yet therewere reasons at the time to justify this course.
A Scotchman, Hon
Charles Augustus Murray, writing some forty-five or fiftyyears ago, said--'The streets are narrow, ill paved and ill lighted.'
Those streets are narrow still, of course; many of them are ill paved yet;but the reproach of ill lighting cannot be repeated, now
The 'CatholicNew Church' was the only notable building then, and Mr
Louis with strong confidence.
The further we drove in our inspection-tour, the more sensibly Irealized how the city had grown since I had seen it last; changes indetail became steadily more apparent and frequent than at first, too:changes uniformly evidencing progress, energy, prosperity.
But the change of changes was on the 'levee.'
This time,a departure from the rule
Half a dozen sound-asleep steamboatswhere I used to see a solid mile of wide-awake ones!
This was melancholy, this was woeful
The absence of the pervadingand jocund steamboatman from the billiard-saloon was explained.
He was absent because he is no more
His occupation is gone,his power has passed away, he is absorbed into the common herd,he grinds at the mill, a shorn Samson and inconspicuous.
Louis has 20,000 inhabitants
Comes murmuring, with foamy lips,
And knocking at the vacant piers,
Calls for his long-lost multitude of ships.
The towboat and the railroad had done their work, and done itwell and completely
The mighty bridge, stretching along overour heads, had done its share in the slaughter and spoliation.
Remains of former steamboatmen told me, with wan satisfaction,that the bridge doesn't pay
Still, it can be no sufficientcompensation to a corpse, to know that the dynamite that laid himout was not of as good quality as it had been supposed to be.
The pavements along the river front were bad:  the sidewalkswere rather out of repair; there was a rich abundance of mud.
All this was familiar and satisfying; but the ancient armies of drays,and struggling throngs of men, and mountains of freight, were gone;and Sabbath reigned in their stead
Mississippi steamboating was born about 1812; at the end of thirty years,it had grown to mighty proportions; and in less than thirty more,it was dead!
A strangely short life for so majestic a creature.
Of course it is not absolutely dead, neither is a crippled octogenarianwho could once jump twenty-two feet on level ground; but as contrastedwith what it was in its prime vigor, Mississippi steamboating maybe called dead.
It killed the old-fashioned keel-boating, by reducingthe freight-trip to New Orleans to less than a week.
The railroads have killed the steamboat passenger traffic by doingin two or three days what the steamboats consumed a week in doing;and the towing-fleets have killed the through-freight trafficby dragging six or seven steamer-loads of stuff down the riverat a time, at an expense so trivial that steamboat competitionwas out of the question.
Freight and passenger way-traffic remains to the steamers.
This is in the hands--along the two thousand miles of river betweenSt
Paul and New Orleans---of two or three close corporations wellfortified with capital; and by able and thoroughly business-likemanagement and system, these make a sufficiency of money outof what is left of the once prodigious steamboating industry.
I suppose that St
Louis and New Orleans have not suffered materiallyby the change, but alas for the wood-yard man!
He used to fringe the river all the way; his close-ranked merchandisestretched from the one city to the other, along the banks,and he sold uncountable cords of it every year for cash on the nail;but all the scattering boats that are left burn coal now,and the seldomest spectacle on the Mississippi to-day is a wood-pile.
Where now is the once wood-yard man?
MY idea was, to tarry a while in every town between St
Louisand New Orleans
To do this, it would be necessary to go from placeto place by the short packet lines
It was an easy plan to make,and would have been an easy one to follow, twenty years ago-but not now.
There are wide intervals between boats, these days.
I wanted to begin with the interesting old French settlementsof St
There was only one boat advertised for that section--a Grand Tower packet
Still, one boat was enough; so we wentdown to look at her
She was a venerable rack-heap, and a fraudto boot; for she was playing herself for personal property,whereas the good honest dirt was so thickly caked all overher that she was righteously taxable as real estate.
There are places in New England where her hurricane deckwould be worth a hundred and fifty dollars an acre.
The soil on her forecastle was quite good--the new crop of wheatwas already springing from the cracks in protected places.
The companionway was of a dry sandy character, and wouldhave been well suited for grapes, with a southern exposureand a little subsoiling
The soil of the boiler deckwas thin and rocky, but good enough for grazing purposes.
A colored boy was on watch here--nobody else visible.
We gathered from him that this calm craft would go, as advertised,'if she got her trip;' if she didn't get it, she would waitfor it.
He was uncertain as to when she might get her trip, but thought itmight be to-morrow or maybe next day
This would not answer at all;so we had to give up the novelty of sailing down the river on a farm.
We took passage in her for Memphis, and gaveup the idea of stopping off here and there, as being impracticable.
She was neat, clean, and comfortable
We camped on the boiler deck,and bought some cheap literature to kill time with
The vender was avenerable Irishman with a benevolent face and a tongue that worked easilyin the socket, and from him we learned that he had lived in St
Louisthirty-four years and had never been across the river during that period.
Then he wandered into a very flowing lecture, filled with classic namesand allusions, which was quite wonderful for fluency until the fact becamerather apparent that this was not the first time, nor perhaps the fiftieth,that the speech had been delivered
He was a good deal of a character,and much better company than the sappy literature he was selling.
A random remark, connecting Irishmen and beer, brought this nugget ofinformation out of him--
They don't drink it, sir
They can't drink it, sir.
Give an Irishman lager for a month, and he's a dead man.
An Irishman is lined with copper, and the beer corrodes it.
But whiskey polishes the copper and is the saving of him, sir.'
At eight o'clock, promptly, we backed out and crossed the river.
As we crept toward the shore, in the thick darkness, a blindingglory of white electric light burst suddenly from our forecastle,and lit up the water and the warehouses as with a noon-day glare.
Another big change, this--no more flickering, smoky, pitch-dripping,ineffectual torch-baskets, now:  their day is past
Next, instead ofcalling out a score of hands to man the stage, a couple of men and ahatful of steam lowered it from the derrick where it was suspended,launched it, deposited it in just the right spot, and the whole thingwas over and done with before a mate in the olden time could havegot his profanity-mill adjusted to begin the preparatory services.
Why this new and simple method of handling the stages was not thoughtof when the first steamboat was built, is a mystery which helps one torealize what a dull-witted slug the average human being is.
We finally got away at two in the morning, and when I turned outat six, we were rounding to at a rocky point where there was an oldstone warehouse--at any rate, the ruins of it; two or three decayeddwelling-houses were near by, in the shelter of the leafy hills;but there were no evidences of human or other animal life to be seen.
I wondered if I had forgotten the river; for I had no recollection whateverof this place; the shape of the river, too, was unfamiliar; there wasnothing in sight, anywhere, that I could remember ever having seen before.
I was surprised, disappointed, and annoyed.
We put ashore a well-dressed lady and gentleman, and two well-dressed,lady-like young girls, together with sundry Russia-leather bags.
A strange place for such folk!
No carriage was waiting.
The party moved off as if they had not expected any, and struckdown a winding country road afoot.
I couldn't remember that town; I couldn'tplace it, couldn't call its name
So I lost part of my temper.
I suspected that it might be St
Genevieve--and so it provedto be
Observe what this eccentric river had been about:it had built up this huge useless tow-head directlyin front of this town, cut off its river communications,fenced it away completely, and made a 'country' town of it.
It is a fine old place, too, and deserved a better fate.
It was settled by the French, and is a relic of a time when onecould travel from the mouths of the Mississippi to Quebec and beon French territory and under French rule all the way.
Presently I ascended to the hurricane deck and cast a longingglance toward the pilot-house.
My Incognito is Exploded
AFTER a close study of the face of the pilot on watch, I was satisfied that Ihad never seen him before; so I went up there
The pilot inspected me;I re-inspected the pilot
These customary preliminaries over, I satdown on the high bench, and he faced about and went on with his work.
Every detail of the pilot-house was familiar to me, with one exception,--a large-mouthed tube under the breast-board
I puzzled over that thing aconsiderable time; then gave up and asked what it was for.
'To hear the engine-bells through.'
It was another good contrivance which ought to have been inventedhalf a century sooner
So I was thinking, when the pilot asked--
'Do you know what this rope is for?'
I managed to get around this question, without committing myself.
'Is this the first time you were ever in a pilot-house?'
I crept under that one.
'Where are you from?'
'First time you have ever been West?'
I climbed over this one.
'If you take an interest in such things, I can tell you what allthese things are for.'
I said I should like it.
'This,' putting his hand on a backing-bell rope, 'is to sound the fire-alarm;this,' putting his hand on a go-ahead bell, 'is to call the texas-tender;this one,' indicating the whistle-lever, 'is to call the captain'--and so he went on, touching one object after another, and reeling offhis tranquil spool of lies.
I had never felt so like a passenger before.
I thanked him, with emotion, for each new fact, and wrote itdown in my note-book
The pilot warmed to his opportunity,and proceeded to load me up in the good old-fashioned way.
At times I was afraid he was going to rupture his invention;but it always stood the strain, and he pulled through all right.
He drifted, by easy stages, into revealments of the river'smarvelous eccentricities of one sort and another,and backed them up with some pretty gigantic illustrations.
I had a mighty impulse to destroy him, but it seemed to me that killing,in any ordinary way, would be too good for him.
Once, when an odd-looking craft, with a vast coal-scuttle slantingaloft on the end of a beam, was steaming by in the distance,he indifferently drew attention to it, as one might to an objectgrown wearisome through familiarity, and observed that it wasan 'alligator boat.'
'An alligator boat?
What's it for?'
'To dredge out alligators with.'
'Are they so thick as to be troublesome?'
'Well, not now, because the Government keeps them down.
But they used to be
Not everywhere; but in favorite places,here and there, where the river is wide and shoal-like Plum Point,and Stack Island, and so on--places they call alligator beds.'
'Did they actually impede navigation?'
'Years ago, yes, in very low water; there was hardly a trip, then, that wedidn't get aground on alligators.'
It seemed to me that I should certainly have to get out my tomahawk.
However, I restrained myself and said--
'It must have been dreadful.'
'Yes, it was one of the main difficulties about piloting.
It was so hard to tell anything about the water; the damnedthings shift around so--never lie still five minutes at a time.
You can tell a wind-reef, straight off, by the look of it;you can tell a break; you can tell a sand-reef--that's all easy;but an alligator reef doesn't show up, worth anything.
Nine times in ten you can't tell where the water is;and when you do see where it is, like as not it ain't therewhen YOU get there, the devils have swapped around so, meantime.
Of course there were some few pilots that could judge ofalligator water nearly as well as they could of any other kind,but they had to have natural talent for it; it wasn't a thinga body could learn, you had to be born with it
Let me see:there was Ben Thornburg, and Beck Jolly, and Squire Bell,and Horace Bixby, and Major Downing, and John Stevenson,and Billy Gordon, and Jim Brady, and George Ealer,and Billy Youngblood--all A 1 alligator pilots
THEY could tellalligator water as far as another Christian could tell whiskey.
I only wish I had as manydollars as they could read alligator water a mile and a half off.
Yes, and it paid them to do it, too
A good alligator pilot couldalways get fifteen hundred dollars a month
Nights, other peoplehad to lay up for alligators, but those fellows never laidup for alligators; they never laid up for anything but fog.
They could SMELL the best alligator water it was said;I don't know whether it was so or not, and I think a body's gothis hands full enough if he sticks to just what he knows himself,without going around backing up other people's say-so's,though there's a plenty that ain't backward about doing it,as long as they can roust out something wonderful to tell.
Was this Rob Styles?
'I should think that dredging out the alligators wouldn't have done much good,because they could come back again right away.'
'If you had had as much experience of alligators as I have, you wouldn'ttalk like that
You dredge an alligator once and he's CONVINCED.
It's the last you hear of HIM
He wouldn't come back for pie.
If there's one thing that an alligator is more down on than another,it's being dredged
Besides, they were not simply shovedout of the way; the most of the scoopful were scooped aboard;they emptied them into the hold; and when they had got a trip,they took them to Orleans to the Government works.'
'Why, to make soldier-shoes out of their hides.
All the Government shoes are made of alligator hide.
It makes the best shoes in the world
They last five years,and they won't absorb water
The alligator fishery is aGovernment monopoly
All the alligators are Government property--just like the live-oaks
You cut down a live-oak, andGovernment fines you fifty dollars; you kill an alligator,and up you go for misprision of treason--lucky duck if theydon't hang you, too
And they will, if you're a Democrat.
The buzzard is the sacred bird of the South, and you can'ttouch him; the alligator is the sacred bird of the Government,and you've got to let him alone.'
'Do you ever get aground on the alligators now?'
it hasn't happened for years.'
'Well, then, why do they still keep the alligator boats in service?'
'Just for police duty--nothing more
They merely go up and downnow and then
The present generation of alligators know themas easy as a burglar knows a roundsman; when they see one coming,they break camp and go for the woods.'
After rounding-out and finishing-up and polishing-off the alligator business,he dropped easily and comfortably into the historical vein, and told of sometremendous feats of half-a-dozen old-time steamboats of his acquaintance,dwelling at special length upon a certain extraordinary performance of hischief favorite among this distinguished fleet--and then adding--
'That boat was the "Cyclone,"--last trip she ever made--she sunk,that very trip--captain was Tom Ballou, the most immortal liar that everI struck
He couldn't ever seem to tell the truth, in any kind of weather.
Why, he would make you fairly shudder
He WAS the most scandalous liar!
I left him, finally; I couldn't stand it
The proverb says, "like master,like man;" and if you stay with that kind of a man, you'll come undersuspicion by and by, just as sure as you live
He paid first-class wages;but said I, What's wages when your reputation's in danger?
So I letthe wages go, and froze to my reputation
And I've never regretted it.
Reputation's worth everything, ain't it?
That's the way I look at it.
He had more selfish organs than any seven men in the world--all packedin the stern-sheets of his skull, of course, where they belonged.
They weighed down the back of his head so that it made his nose tilt upin the air
People thought it was vanity, but it wasn't, it was malice.
If you only saw his foot, you'd take him to be nineteen feet high,but he wasn't; it was because his foot was out of drawing.
He was intended to be nineteen feet high, no doubt, if his footwas made first, but he didn't get there; he was only five feet ten.
That's what he was, and that's what he is
You take the lies out of him,and he'll shrink to the size of your hat; you take the malice out of him,and he'll disappear
That "Cyclone" was a rattler to go, and the sweetestthing to steer that ever walked the waters
Set her amidships,in a big river, and just let her go; it was all you had to do.
She would hold herself on a star all night, if you let her alone.
You couldn't ever feel her rudder
It wasn't any more labor to steerher than it is to count the Republican vote in a South Carolina election.
One morning, just at daybreak, the last trip she ever made, they tookher rudder aboard to mend it; I didn't know anything about it; I backedher out from the wood-yard and went a-weaving down the river all serene.
Now take the wheel and finish the watch; and next time play fair,and you won't have to work your passage.'
Thus ended the fictitious-name business
And not six hours outfrom St
But I had gained a privilege, any way, for I hadbeen itching to get my hands on the wheel, from the beginning.
I seemed to have forgotten the river, but I hadn't forgottenhow to steer a steamboat, nor how to enjoy it, either.
From Cairo to Hickman
Louis to Cairo--two hundred miles--is variedand beautiful
The hills were clothed in the fresh foliage of spring now,and were a gracious and worthy setting for the broad river flowing between.
Our trip began auspiciously, with a perfect day, as to breeze and sunshine,and our boat threw the miles out behind her with satisfactory despatch.
We found a railway intruding at Chester, Illinois; Chester hasalso a penitentiary now, and is otherwise marching on
At GrandTower, too, there was a railway; and another at Cape Girardeau.
The former town gets its name from a huge, squat pillar of rock,which stands up out of the water on the Missouri side of the river--a piece of nature's fanciful handiwork--and is one of themost picturesque features of the scenery of that region.
For nearer or remoter neighbors, the Tower has the Devil'sBake Oven--so called, perhaps, because it does not powerfullyresemble anybody else's bake oven; and the Devil's Tea Table--this latter a great smooth-surfaced mass of rock, with diminishingwine-glass stem, perched some fifty or sixty feet above the river,beside a beflowered and garlanded precipice, and sufficientlylike a tea-table to answer for anybody, Devil or Christian.
Away down the river we have the Devil's Elbow and the Devil'sRace-course, and lots of other property of his which I cannot nowcall to mind.
The Town of Grand Tower was evidently a busier place than ithad been in old times, but it seemed to need some repairshere and there, and a new coat of whitewash all over.
Still, it was pleasant to me to see the old coat once more.'
Uncle' Mumford, our second officer, said the place had beensuffering from high water, and consequently was not lookingits best now
But he said it was not strange that it didn'twaste white-wash on itself, for more lime was made there,and of a better quality, than anywhere in the West;and added--'On a dairy farm you never can get any milkfor your coffee, nor any sugar for it on a sugar plantation;and it is against sense to go to a lime town to hunt for white-wash.'
In my own experience I knew the first two items to be true;and also that people who sell candy don't care for candy;therefore there was plausibility in Uncle Mumford's final observationthat 'people who make lime run more to religion than whitewash.'
Uncle Mumford said, further, that Grand Tower was a great coalingcenter and a prospering place.
Cape Girardeau is situated on a hillside, and makes a handsome appearance.
There is a great Jesuit school for boys at the foot of the town by the river.
Uncle Mumford said it had as high a reputation for thoroughness as anysimilar institution in Missouri ' There was another college higher up onan airy summit--a bright new edifice, picturesquely and peculiarly toweredand pinnacled--a sort of gigantic casters, with the cruets all complete.
Uncle Mumford said that Cape Girardeau was the Athens of Missouri,and contained several colleges besides those already mentioned; and all ofthem on a religious basis of one kind or another
He directed my attentionto what he called the 'strong and pervasive religious look of the town,'but I could not see that it looked more religious than the other hilltowns with the same slope and built of the same kind of bricks.
Partialities often make people see more than really exists.
Uncle Mumford has been thirty years a mate on the river.
He is a man of practical sense and a level head; has observed;has had much experience of one sort and another; has opinions;has, also, just a perceptible dash of poetry in his composition,an easy gift of speech, a thick growl in his voice, and an oathor two where he can get at them when the exigencies of hisoffice require a spiritual lift
He is a mate of the blessedold-time kind; and goes gravely damning around, when thereis work to the fore, in a way to mellow the ex-steamboatman'sheart with sweet soft longings for the vanished days that shallcome no more
He is a steady man with his crew; kind and just, but firm;so they like him, and stay with him
He is still in the slouchygarb of the old generation of mates; but next trip the AnchorLine will have him in uniform--a natty blue naval uniform,with brass buttons, along with all the officers of the line--and then he will be a totally different style of scenery from whathe is now.
Uniforms on the Mississippi!
It beats all the other changesput together, for surprise
Still, there is another surprise--that it was not made fifty years ago
It is so manifestly sensible,that it might have been thought of earlier, one would suppose.
During fifty years, out there, the innocent passenger in needof help and information, has been mistaking the mate forthe cook, and the captain for the barber--and being roughlyentertained for it, too
But his troubles are ended now.
And the greatly improved aspect of the boat's staff is anotheradvantage achieved by the dress-reform period.
Steered down the bend below Cape Girardeau
They used to call it'Steersman's Bend;' plain sailing and plenty of water in it, always;about the only place in the Upper River that a new cub was allowedto take a boat through, in low water.
Thebes, at the head of the Grand Chain, and Commerce at the footof it, were towns easily rememberable, as they had not undergoneconspicuous alteration
Nor the Chain, either--in the natureof things; for it is a chain of sunken rocks admirablyarranged to capture and kill steamboats on bad nights.
A good many steamboat corpses lie buried there, out of sight;among the rest my first friend the 'Paul Jones;' she knocked herbottom out, and went down like a pot, so the historian told me--Uncle Mumford
He said she had a gray mare aboard, and a preacher.
To me, this sufficiently accounted for the disaster; as it did,of course, to Mumford, who added--
'But there are many ignorant people who would scoff at sucha matter, and call it superstition
But you will always noticethat they are people who have never traveled with a gray mareand a preacher
I went down the river once in such company.
We grounded at Bloody Island; we grounded at Hanging Dog;we grounded just below this same Commerce; we jolted BeaverDam Rock; we hit one of the worst breaks in the 'Graveyard'behind Goose Island; we had a roustabout killed in a fight;we burnt a boiler; broke a shaft; collapsed a flue; and went intoCairo with nine feet of water in the hold--may have been more,may have been less
I remember it as if it were yesterday.
The men lost their heads with terror
They painted the mare blue,in sight of town, and threw the preacher overboard, or we shouldnot have arrived at all
The preacher was fished out and saved.
He acknowledged, himself, that he had been to blame.
I remember it all, as if it were yesterday.'
That this combination--of preacher and gray mare--should breed calamity,seems strange, and at first glance unbelievable; but the fact is fortifiedby so much unassailable proof that to doubt is to dishonor reason.
I myself remember a case where a captain was warned by numerous friendsagainst taking a gray mare and a preacher with him, but persisted in hispurpose in spite of all that could be said; and the same day--it may havebeen the next, and some say it was, though I think it was the same day--he got drunk and fell down the hatchway, and was borne to his home a corpse.
This is literally true.
No vestige of Hat Island is left now; every shred of it is washed away.
I do not even remember what part of the river it used to be in,except that it was between St
Louis and Cairo somewhere.
It was a bad region--all around and about Hat Island, in early days.
A farmer who lived on the Illinois shore there, said that twenty-ninesteamboats had left their bones strung along within sight from his house.
I could recognize big changes from Commerce down
Beaver Dam Rock wasout in the middle of the river now, and throwing a prodigious 'break;'it used to be close to the shore, and boats went down outside of it.
A big island that used to be away out in mid-river, has retiredto the Missouri shore, and boats do not go near it any more.
The island called Jacket Pattern is whittled down to a wedge now,and is booked for early destruction
Goose Island is all gonebut a little dab the size of a steamboat
The perilous 'Graveyard,'among whose numberless wrecks we used to pick our way so slowlyand gingerly, is far away from the channel now, and a terror to nobody.
One of the islands formerly called the Two Sisters is gone entirely;the other, which used to lie close to the Illinois shore, is now onthe Missouri side, a mile away; it is joined solidly to the shore,and it takes a sharp eye to see where the seam is--but it isIllinois ground yet, and the people who live on it have to ferrythemselves over and work the Illinois roads and pay Illinois taxes:singular state of things!
Near the mouth of the river several islands were missing--washed away.
Cairo was still there--easily visible across the long, flat point uponwhose further verge it stands; but we had to steam a long way aroundto get to it
Night fell as we were going out of the 'Upper River'and meeting the floods of the Ohio
We dashed along without anxiety;for the hidden rock which used to lie right in the way has moved upstream a long distance out of the channel; or rather, about one countyhas gone into the river from the Missouri point, and the Cairo point has'made down' and added to its long tongue of territory correspondingly.
The Mississippi is a just and equitable river; it never tumbles one man's farmoverboard without building a new farm just like it for that man's neighbor.
This keeps down hard feelings.
Going into Cairo, we came near killing a steamboat which paidno attention to our whistle and then tried to cross our bows.
By doing some strong backing, we saved him; which was a great loss,for he would have made good literature.
Cairo is a brisk town now; and is substantially built, and has a citylook about it which is in noticeable contrast to its former estate,as per Mr
Dickens's portrait of it
However, it was alreadybuilding with bricks when I had seen it last--which was when Colonel(now General) Grant was drilling his first command there.
Uncle Mumford says the libraries and Sunday-schools havedone a good work in Cairo, as well as the brick masons.
Cairo has a heavy railroad and river trade, and her situation atthe junction of the two great rivers is so advantageous that shecannot well help prospering.
When I turned out, in the morning, we had passed Columbus, Kentucky,and were approaching Hickman, a pretty town, perched on a handsome hill.
Hickman is in a rich tobacco region, and formerly enjoyed a greatand lucrative trade in that staple, collecting it there in herwarehouses from a large area of country and shipping it by boat;but Uncle Mumford says she built a railway to facilitate this commercea little more, and he thinks it facilitated it the wrong way--took the bulk of the trade out of her hands by 'collaring it alongthe line without gathering it at her doors.'
TALK began to run upon the war now, for we were getting downinto the upper edge of the former battle-stretch by this time.
Columbus was just behind us, so there was a good deal saidabout the famous battle of Belmont
Several of the boat'sofficers had seen active service in the Mississippi war-fleet
Igathered that they found themselves sadly out of their elementin that kind of business at first, but afterward got accustomedto it, reconciled to it, and more or less at home in it.
One of our pilots had his first war experience in the Belmontfight, as a pilot on a boat in the Confederate service.
I had often had a curiosity to know how a green hand might feel,in his maiden battle, perched all solitary and alone on highin a pilot house, a target for Tom, Dick and Harry, and nobody athis elbow to shame him from showing the white feather when mattersgrew hot and perilous around him; so, to me his story was valuable--it filled a gap for me which all histories had left tillthat time empty.
THE PILOT'S FIRST BATTLE
It was the 7th of November
The fight began at seven in the morning.
Took over a load of troops from Columbus.
Came back, and took over a battery of artillery
My partner said he was goingto see the fight; wanted me to go along
I said, no, I wasn't anxious,I would look at it from the pilot-house
He said I was a coward, and left.
That fight was an awful sight
General Cheatham made his men striptheir coats off and throw them in a pile, and said, 'Now follow meto hell or victory!'
I heard him say that from the pilot-house;and then he galloped in, at the head of his troops
Old General Pillow,with his white hair, mounted on a white horse, sailed in, too, leading histroops as lively as a boy
By and by the Federals chased the rebels back,and here they came!
tearing along, everybody for himself and Devil takethe hindmost!
and down under the bank they scrambled, and took shelter.
I was sitting with my legs hanging out of the pilot-house window.
All at once I noticed a whizzing sound passing my ear.
Judged it was a bullet
I didn't stop to think about anything,I just tilted over backwards and landed on the floor, and staid there.
The balls came booming around
Three cannon-balls went through the chimney;one ball took off the corner of the pilot-house; shells were screamingand bursting all around
Mighty warm times--I wished I hadn't come.
I lay there on the pilot-house floor, while the shots came faster and faster.
I crept in behind the big stove, in the middle of the pilot-house.
Presently a minie-ball came through the stove, and just grazed my head,and cut my hat
I judged it was time to go away from there
The captainwas on the roof with a red-headed major from Memphis--a fine-looking man.
I heard him say he wanted to leave here, but 'that pilot is killed.'
I crept over to the starboard side to pull the bell to set her back;raised up and took a look, and I saw about fifteen shot holesthrough the window panes; had come so lively I hadn't noticed them.
I glanced out on the water, and the spattering shot were like a hailstorm.
I thought best to get out of that place
I went down the pilot-house guy,head first--not feet first but head first--slid down--before I struckthe deck, the captain said we must leave there
So I climbed up the guyand got on the floor again
About that time, they collared my partnerand were bringing him up to the pilot-house between two soldiers.
Somebody had said I was killed
He put his head in and saw me on the floorreaching for the backing bells
He said, 'Oh, hell, he ain't shot,'and jerked away from the men who had him by the collar, and ran below.
We were there until three o'clock in the afternoon, and then got away allright.
The next time I saw my partner, I said, 'Now, come out, be honest,and tell me the truth
Where did you go when you went to see that battle?'
He says, 'I went down in the hold.'
All through that fight I was scared nearly to death.
I hardly knew anything, I was so frightened; but you see,nobody knew that but me
Next day General Polk sent for me,and praised me for my bravery and gallant conduct.
I never said anything, I let it go at that
I judged it wasn't so,but it was not for me to contradict a general officer.
Pretty soon after that I was sick, and used up, and had to gooff to the Hot Springs
When there, I got a good manyletters from commanders saying they wanted me to come back.
I declined, because I wasn't well enough or strong enough;but I kept still, and kept the reputation I had made.
A plain story, straightforwardly told; but Mumford told methat that pilot had 'gilded that scare of his, in spots;'that his subsequent career in the war was proof of it.
We were approachingIsland No
10, a place so celebrated during the war.
This gentleman's home was on the main shore in its neighborhood.
I had some talk with him about the war times; but presentlythe discourse fell upon 'feuds,' for in no part of the Southhas the vendetta flourished more briskly, or held out longerbetween warring families, than in this particular region.
This gentleman said--
'There's been more than one feud around here, in old times, but Ireckon the worst one was between the Darnells and the Watsons.
Nobody don't know now what the first quarrel was about, it's so long ago;the Darnells and the Watsons don't know, if there's any of them living,which I don't think there is
Some says it was about a horse or a cow--anyway, it was a little matter; the money in it wasn't of no consequence--none in the world--both families was rich
The thing could have beenfixed up, easy enough; but no, that wouldn't do
Rough words had been passed;and so, nothing but blood could fix it up after that
That horseor cow, whichever it was, cost sixty years of killing and crippling!
Every year or so somebody was shot, on one side or the other; and as fastas one generation was laid out, their sons took up the feud and keptit a-going
And it's just as I say; they went on shooting each other,year in and year out--making a kind of a religion of it, you see--till they'd done forgot, long ago, what it was all about
Wherever aDarnell caught a Watson, or a Watson caught a Darnell, one of 'em was goingto get hurt--only question was, which of them got the drop on the other.
They'd shoot one another down, right in the presence of the family.
They didn't hunt for each other, but when they happened to meet,they puffed and begun
Men would shoot boys, boys would shoot men.
A man shot a boy twelve years old--happened on him in the woods,and didn't give him no chance
If he HAD 'a' given him a chance,the boy'd 'a' shot him
Both families belonged to the same church(everybody around here is religious); through all this fifty orsixty years' fuss, both tribes was there every Sunday, to worship.
They lived each side of the line, and the church was at a landingcalled Compromise
Half the church and half the aisle was in Kentucky,the other half in Tennessee
Sundays you'd see the families drive up,all in their Sunday clothes, men, women, and children, and file up the aisle,and set down, quiet and orderly, one lot on the Tennessee side of the churchand the other on the Kentucky side; and the men and boys would lean their gunsup against the wall, handy, and
then all hands would join in with the prayerand praise; though they say the man next the aisle didn't kneel down,along with the rest of the family; kind of stood guard
I don't know;never was at that church in my life; but I remember that that's what usedto be said.
'Twenty or twenty-five years ago, one of the feud familiescaught a young man of nineteen out and killed him.
Don't remember whether it was the Darnells and Watsons,or one of the other feuds; but anyway, this young man rode up--steamboat laying there at the time--and the first thinghe saw was a whole gang of the enemy
He jumped down behinda wood-pile, but they rode around and begun on him, he firing back,and they galloping and cavorting and yelling and banging awaywith all their might
Think he wounded a couple of them;but they closed in on him and chased him into the river;and as he swum along down stream, they followed along the bankand kept on shooting at him; and when he struck shore he was dead.
Windy Marshall told me about it
He saw it
He was captainof the boat.
Years ago, the Darnells was so thinned out that the old manand his two sons concluded they'd leave the country
They startedto take steamboat just above No 10; but the Watsons got wind of it;and they arrived just as the two young Darnells was walking upthe companion-way with their wives on their arms
The fightbegun then, and they never got no further--both of them killed.
After that, old Darnell got into trouble with the man that runthe ferry, and the ferry-man got the worst of it--and died.
But his friends shot old Darnell through and through--filled himfull of bullets, and ended him.'
The country gentleman who told me these things had been rearedin ease and comfort, was a man of good parts, and was college bred.
His loose grammar was the fruit of careless habit, not ignorance.
This habit among educated men in the West is not universal, but itis prevalent--prevalent in the towns, certainly, if not in the cities;and to a degree which one cannot help noticing, and marveling at.
I heard a Westerner who would be accounted a highly educated manin any country, say 'never mind, it DON'T MAKE NO DIFFERENCE, anyway.'
A life-long resident who was present heard it, but it made no impressionupon her
She was able to recall the fact afterward, when reminded of it;but she confessed that the words had not grated upon her ear at the time--a confession which suggests that if educated people can hear suchblasphemous grammar, from such a source, and be unconscious of the deed,the crime must be tolerably common--so common that the general ear hasbecome dulled by familiarity with it, and is no longer alert, no longersensitive to such affronts.
No one in the world speaks blemishless grammar; no one hasever written it--NO one, either in the world or out of it(taking the Scriptures for evidence on the latter point);therefore it would not be fair to exact grammatical perfectionfrom the peoples of the Valley; but they and all other peoplesmay justly be required to refrain from KNOWINGLY and PURPOSELYdebauching their grammar.
I found the river greatly changed at Island No 10.
The island which I remembered was some three miles longand a quarter of a mile wide, heavily timbered, and laynear the Kentucky shore--within two hundred yards of it,I should say
Now, however, one had to hunt for it witha spy-glass
Nothing was left of it but an insignificantlittle tuft, and this was no longer near the Kentucky shore;it was clear over against the opposite shore, a mile away.
In war times the island had been an important place,for it commanded the situation; and, being heavily fortified,there was no getting by it
It lay between the upper and lowerdivisions of the Union forces, and kept them separate, until ajunction was finally effected across the Missouri neck of land;but the island being itself joined to that neck now, the wide riveris without obstruction.
In this region the river passes from Kentucky into Tennessee,back into Missouri, then back into Kentucky, and thence into Tennessee again.
So a mile or two of Missouri sticks over into Tennessee.
The town of New Madrid was looking very unwell;but otherwise unchanged from its former condition and aspect.
Its blocks of frame-houses were still grouped in the sameold flat plain, and environed by the same old forests.
It was as tranquil as formerly, and apparently had neither grownnor diminished in size
It was said that the recent high waterhad invaded it and damaged its looks
This was surprising news;for in low water the river bank is very high there (fifty feet), andin my day an overflow had always been considered an impossibility.
This present flood of 1882 Will doubtless be celebratedin the river's history for several generations before a delugeof like magnitude shall be seen
It put all the unprotectedlow lands under water, from Cairo to the mouth; it broke downthe levees in a great many places, on both sides of the river;and in some regions south, when the flood was at its highest,the Mississippi was SEVENTY MILES wide!
a number of liveswere lost, and the destruction of property was fearful.
The crops were destroyed, houses washed away, and shelterless menand cattle forced to take refuge on scattering elevations hereand there in field and forest, and wait in peril and sufferinguntil the boats put in commission by the national and localgovernments and by newspaper enterprise could come and rescue them.
The properties of multitudes of people were under water for months,and the poorer ones must have starved by the hundred if succorhad not been promptly afforded.
WE met two steamboats at New Madrid
Two steamboats in sightat once!
an infrequent spectacle now in the lonesome Mississippi.
The loneliness of this solemn, stupendous flood is impressive--and depressing
League after league, and still league after league,it pours its chocolate tide along, between its solid forest walls,its almost untenanted shores, with seldom a sail or a movingobject of any kind to disturb the surface and break the monotonyof the blank, watery solitude; and so the day goes, the night comes,and again the day--and still the same, night after nightand day after day--majestic, unchanging sameness of serenity,repose, tranquillity, lethargy, vacancy--symbol of eternity,realization of the heaven pictured by priest and prophet,and longed for by the good and thoughtless!
Immediately after the war of 1812, tourists began to cometo America, from England; scattering ones at first, then a sortof procession of them--a procession which kept up its plodding,patient march through the land during many, many years.
Each tourist took notes, and went home and published a book--a book which was usually calm, truthful, reasonable, kind;but which seemed just the reverse to our tender-footed progenitors.
A glance at these tourist-books shows us that in certain of itsaspects the Mississippi has undergone no change since thosestrangers visited it, but remains to-day about as it was then.
The emotions produced in those foreign breasts by these aspectswere not all formed on one pattern, of course; they HADto be various, along at first, because the earlier touristswere obliged to originate their emotions, whereas in oldercountries one can always borrow emotions from one's predecessors.
And, mind you, emotions are among the toughest things inthe world to manufacture out of whole cloth; it is easier tomanufacture seven facts than one emotion
'Here I caught the first glimpse of the object I had so long wishedto behold, and felt myself amply repaid at that moment for allthe trouble I had experienced in coming so far; and stood looking atthe river flowing past till it was too dark to distinguish anything.
But it was not till I had visited the same spot a dozen times,that I came to a right comprehension of the grandeur of the scene.'
'The first indication of our approach to land was the appearanceof this mighty river pouring forth its muddy mass of waters,and mingling with the deep blue of the Mexican Gulf
I never behelda scene so utterly desolate as this entrance of the Mississippi.
Had Dante seen it, he might have drawn images of another Bolgia fromits horrors
One only object rears itself above the eddying waters;this is the mast of a vessel long since wrecked in attempting to crossthe bar, and it still stands, a dismal witness of the destructionthat has been, and a boding prophet of that which is to come.'
'It is only when you ascend the mighty current for fifty or ahundred miles, and use the eye of imagination as well as thatof nature, that you begin to understand all his might and majesty.
You see him fertilizing a boundless valley, bearing along in his coursethe trophies of his thousand victories over the shattered forest--here carrying away large masses of soil with all their growth,and there forming islands, destined at some future period to bethe residence of man; and while indulging in this prospect,it is then time for reflection to suggest that the currentbefore you has flowed through two or three thousand miles, and hasyet to travel one thousand three hundred more before reachingits ocean destination.'
Receive, now, the emotions of Captain Marryat, R.
N
author of the sea tales,writing in 1837, three years after Mr
'Never, perhaps, in the records of nations, was there an instance of acentury of such unvarying and unmitigated crime as is to be collectedfrom the history of the turbulent and blood-stained Mississippi.
The stream itself appears as if appropriate for the deeds which havebeen committed
It is not like most rivers, beautiful to the sight,bestowing fertility in its course; not one that the eye lovesto dwell upon as it sweeps along, nor can you wander uponits banks, or trust yourself without danger to its stream.
It contains the coarsest and most uneatableof fish, such as the cat-fish and such genus, and as you descend,its banks are occupied with the fetid alligator, while the pantherbasks at its edge in the cane-brakes, almost impervious to man.
Pouring its impetuous waters through wild tracks covered withtrees of little value except for firewood, it sweeps down wholeforests in its course, which disappear in tumultuous confusion,whirled away by the stream now loaded with the masses of soilwhich nourished their roots, often blocking up and changingfor a time the channel of the river, which, as if in anger at itsbeing opposed, inundates and devastates the whole country round;and as soon as it forces its way through its former channel,plants in every direction the uprooted monarchs of the forest(upon whose branches the bird will never again perch, or the raccoon,the opossum, or the squirrel climb) as traps to the adventurousnavigators of its waters by steam, who, borne down upon these concealeddangers which pierce through the planks, very often have not timeto steer for and gain the shore before they sink to the bottom.
There are no pleasing associations connected with the great common sewerof the Western America, which pours out its mud into the Mexican Gulf,polluting the clear blue sea for many miles beyond its mouth.
It is a river of desolation; and instead of reminding you,like other beautiful rivers, of an angel which has descendedfor the benefit of man, you imagine it a devil, whose energieshave been only overcome by the wonderful power of steam.'
It is pretty crude literature for a man accustomed tohandling a pen; still, as a panorama of the emotions sentweltering through this noted visitor's breast by the aspectand traditions of the 'great common sewer,' it has a value.
A value, though marred in the matter of statistics by inaccuracies;for the catfish is a plenty good enough fish for anybody,and there are no panthers that are 'impervious to man.'
Later still comes Alexander Mackay, of the Middle Temple, Barrister at Law,with a better digestion, and no catfish dinner aboard, and feels as follows--
It was with indescribable emotions that I first felt myselfafloat upon its waters
How often in my schoolboy dreams, and in my wakingvisions afterwards, had my imagination pictured to itself the lordly stream,rolling with tumultuous current through the boundless region to which ithas given its name, and gathering into itself, in its course to the ocean,the tributary waters of almost every latitude in the temperate zone!
Here it was then in its reality, and I, at length, steaming against its tide.
I looked upon it with that reverence with which everyone must regard a greatfeature of external nature.'
So much for the emotions
The tourists, one and all, remark uponthe deep, brooding loneliness and desolation of the vast river.
An artist, in search of hints for a paintingof the deluge, would here have found them in abundance.'
And now they neared their journey's end
On the sixthof April, the river divided itself into three broad channels.
La Salle followed that of the west, and D'Autraythat of the east; while Tonty took the middle passage.
As he drifted down the turbid current, between the lowand marshy shores, the brackish water changed to brine,and the breeze grew fresh with the salt breath of the sea.
Then the broad bosom of the great Gulf opened on his sight,tossing its restless billows, limitless, voiceless, lonely as whenborn of chaos, without a sail, without a sign of life.'
Then, on a spot of solid ground, La Salle reared a column 'bearingthe arms of France; the Frenchmen were mustered under arms;and while the New England Indians and their squaws looked onin wondering silence, they chanted the TE DEUM, THE EXAUDIAT,and the DOMINE SALVUM FAC REGEM.'
Then, whilst the musketry volleyed and rejoicing shouts burst forth,the victorious discoverer planted the column, and made proclamationin a loud voice, taking formal possession of the river andthe vast countries watered by it, in the name of the King.
New Orleans intended to fittingly celebrate, this present year,the bicentennial anniversary of this illustrious event;but when the time came, all her energies and surplus money wererequired in other directions, for the flood was upon the land then,making havoc and devastation everywhere.
ALL day we swung along down the river, and had the stream almostwholly to ourselves
Far along in the day, we saw one steamboat; just one, and no more.
She was lying at rest in the shade, within the wooded mouthof the Obion River
The spy-glass revealed the fact that shewas named for me--or HE was named for me, whichever you prefer.
As this was the first time I had ever encountered this speciesof honor, it seems excusable to mention it, and at the same timecall the attention of the authorities to the tardiness of myrecognition of it.
Noted a big change in the river, at Island 21
It was a very large island,and used to be out toward mid-stream; but it is joined fast to the mainshore now, and has retired from business as an island.
As we approached famous and formidable Plum Point, darkness fell,but that was nothing to shudder about--in these modem times.
For now the national government has turned the Mississippiinto a sort of two-thousand-mile torchlight procession.
In the head of every crossing, and in the foot of everycrossing, the government has set up a clear-burning lamp.
You are never entirely in the dark, now; there is always a beaconin sight, either before you, or behind you, or abreast.
One might almost say that lamps have been squandered there.
Dozens of crossings are lighted which were not shoalwhen they were created, and have never been shoal since;crossings so plain, too, and also so straight, that a steamboatcan take herself through them without any help, after she has beenthrough once
Lamps in such places are of course not wasted;it is much more convenient and comfortable for a pilot to holdon them than on a spread of formless blackness that won'tstay still; and money is saved to the boat, at the same time,for she can of course make more miles with her rudderamidships than she can with it squared across her stern andholding her back.
But this thing has knocked the romance out of piloting, to a large extent.
It, and some other things together, have knocked all the romance out of it.
For instance, the peril from snags is not now what it once was.
The government's snag-boats go patrolling up and down, in thesematter-of-fact days, pulling the river's teeth; they have rooted outall the old clusters which made many localities so formidable; and theyallow no new ones to collect
Formerly, if your boat got away from you,on a black night, and broke for the woods, it was an anxious time with you;so was it also, when you were groping your way through solidifieddarkness in a narrow chute; but all that is changed now--you flash outyour electric light, transform night into day in the twinkling of an eye,and your perils and anxieties are at an end
Horace Bixby and GeorgeRitchie have charted the crossings and laid out the courses by compass;they have invented a lamp to go with the chart, and have patented the whole.
With these helps, one may run in the fog now, with considerable security,and with a confidence unknown in the old days.
With these abundant beacons, the banishment of snags, plenty ofdaylight in a box and ready to be turned on whenever needed,and a chart and compass to fight the fog with, piloting, at a goodstage of water, is now nearly as safe and simple as driving stage,and is hardly more than three times as romantic.
And now in these new days, these days of infinite change, the AnchorLine have raised the captain above the pilot by giving him the biggerwages of the two
This was going far, but they have not stopped there.
They have decreed that the pilot shall remain at his post, and stand hiswatch clear through, whether the boat be under way or tied up to the shore.
We, that were once the aristocrats of the river, can't go to bed now,as we used to do, and sleep while a hundred tons of freight arelugged aboard; no, we must sit in the pilot-house; and keep awake, too.
Verily we are being treated like a parcel of mates and engineers.
The Government has taken away the romance of our calling; the Company hastaken away its state and dignity.
Plum Point looked as it had always looked by night, with theexception that now there were beacons to mark the crossings,and also a lot of other lights on the Point and along its shore;these latter glinting from the fleet of the United StatesRiver Commission, and from a village which the officials have builton the land for offices and for the employes of the service.
The military engineers of the Commission have taken upontheir shoulders the job of making the Mississippi over again--a job transcended in size by only the original job of creating it.
They are building wing-dams here and there, to deflect the current;and dikes to confine it in narrower bounds; and other dikes to makeit stay there; and for unnumbered miles along the Mississippi,they are felling the timber-front for fifty yards back,with the purpose of shaving the bank down to low-water markwith the slant of a house roof, and ballasting it with stones;and in many places they have protected the wasting shores with rowsof piles
One who knows the Mississippi will promptly aver--not aloud, but to himself--that ten thousand River Commissions,with the mines of the world at their back, cannot tame thatlawless stream, cannot curb it or confine it, cannot say to it,Go here, or Go there, and make it obey; cannot save a shorewhich it has sentenced; cannot bar its path with an obstructionwhich it will not tear down, dance over, and laugh at.
But a discreet man will not put these things into spoken words;for the West Point engineers have not their superiors anywhere;they know all that can be known of their abstruse science;and so, since they conceive that they can fetter and handcuffthat river and boss him, it is but wisdom for the unscientific manto keep still, lie low, and wait till they do it
Captain Eads,with his jetties, has done a work at the mouth of the Mississippiwhich seemed clearly impossible; so we do not feel full confidencenow to prophesy against like impossibilities
Otherwise one wouldpipe out and say the Commission might as well bully the cometsin their courses and undertake to make them behave, as try to bullythe Mississippi into right and reasonable conduct.
I consulted Uncle Mumford concerning this and cognate matters;and I give here the result, stenographically reported, and thereforeto be relied on as being full and correct; except that I havehere and there left out remarks which were addressed to the men,such as 'where in blazes are you going with that barrel now?'
and which seemed to me to break the flow of the written statement,without compensating by adding to its information or its clearness.
Not that I have ventured to strike out all such interjections;I have removed only those which were obviously irrelevant;wherever one occurred which I felt any question about, I havejudged it safest to let it remain.
Four years at West Point, and plenty of books and schooling, will learna man a good deal, I reckon, but it won't learn him the river.
You turn one of those little European rivers over to this Commission,with its hard bottom and clear water, and it would just be a holidayjob for them to wall it, and pile it, and dike it, and tame it down,and boss it around, and make it go wherever they wanted it to,and stay where they put it, and do just as they said, every time.
But this ain't that kind of a river
They have started in herewith big confidence, and the best intentions in the world;but they are going to get left
Says enough to knock THEIR little game galley-west, don't it?
Now you look at their methods once
There at Devil's Island,in the Upper River, they wanted the water to go one way, the water wantedto go another
So they put up a stone wall
But what does the rivercare for a stone wall?
When it got ready, it just bulged through it.
Maybe they can build another that will stay; that is, up there--but not down here they can't
Down here in the Lower River, they drivesome pegs to turn the water away from the shore and stop it from slicingoff the bank; very well, don't it go straight over and cut somebodyelse's bank?
Certainly
Are they going to peg all the banks?
Why, they could buy ground and build a new Mississippi cheaper.
They are pegging Bulletin Tow-head now
It won't do any good.
If the river has got a mortgage on that island, it will foreclose,sure, pegs or no pegs
Away down yonder, they have driven two rowsof piles straight through the middle of a dry bar half a mile long,which is forty foot out of the water when the river is low.
What do you reckon that is for?
And just look at what they are trying to do downthere at Milliken's Bend
There's been a cut-off in that section,and Vicksburg is left out in the cold
It's a country town now.
The river strikes in below it; and a boat can't go up to the townexcept in high water
Well, they are going to build wing-dams inthe bend opposite the foot of 103, and throw the water over and cutoff the foot of the island and plow down into an old ditch wherethe river used to be in ancient times; and they think they can persuadethe water around that way, and get it to strike in above Vicksburg,as it used to do, and fetch the town back into the world again.
That is, they are going to take this whole Mississippi,and twist it around and make it run several miles UP STREAM.
Well you've got to admire men that deal in ideas of that size and cantote them around without crutches; but you haven't got to believethey can DO such miracles, have you!
And yet you ain't absolutelyobliged to believe they can't
I reckon the safe way, where a mancan afford it, is to copper the operation, and at the same time buyenough property in Vicksburg to square you up in case they win.
Government is doing a deal for the Mississippi, now--spending loadsof money on her
When there used to be four thousand steamboatsand ten thousand acres of coal-barges, and rafts and trading scows,there wasn't a lantern from St
Paul to New Orleans, and the snagswere thicker than bristles on a hog's back; and now when there'sthree dozen steamboats and nary barge or raft, Government hassnatched out all the snags, and lit up the shores like Broadway,and a boat's as safe on the river as she'd be in heaven.
And I reckon that by the time there ain't any boats left at all,the Commission will have the old thing all reorganized, and dredged out,and fenced in, and tidied up, to a degree that will make navigationjust simply perfect, and absolutely safe and profitable; and allthe days will be Sundays, and all the mates will be Sunday-schoolsu-WHAT-IN-THE-NATION-YOU-FOOLING-AROUND-THERE-FOR, YOU SONSOF UNRIGHTEOUSNESS, HEIRS OF PERDITION !
GOING TO BE A YEAR GETTING THATHOGSHEAD ASHORE ?'
During our trip to New Orleans and back, we had many conversations withriver men, planters, journalists, and officers of the River Commission--with conflicting and confusing results
Some believed in the Commission's scheme to arbitrarilyand permanently confine (and thus deepen) the channel,preserve threatened shores, etc.
Some believed that the Commission's money ought to be spentonly on building and repairing the great system of levees.
Some believed that the higher you build your levee,the higher the river's bottom will rise; and that consequentlythe levee system is a mistake.
Some believed in the scheme to relieve the river, in flood-time,by turning its surplus waters off into Lake Borgne, etc.
Some believed in the scheme of northern lake-reservoirs to replenishthe Mississippi in low-water seasons.
Wherever you find a man down there who believes in one of thesetheories you may turn to the next man and frame your talk uponthe hypothesis that he does not believe in that theory; and afteryou have had experience, you do not take this course doubtfully,or hesitatingly, but with the confidence of a dying murderer--converted one, I mean
For you will have come to know, with a deepand restful certainty, that you are not going to meet two peoplesick of the same theory, one right after the other
No, there willalways be one or two with the other diseases along between.
And as you proceed, you will find out one or two other things.
You will find out that there is no distemper of the lot butis contagious; and you cannot go where it is without catching it.
You may vaccinate yourself with deterrent facts as much as you please--it will do no good; it will seem to 'take,' but it doesn't;the moment you rub against any one of those theorists, make upyour mind that it is time to hang out your yellow flag.
Yes, you are his sure victim:  yet his work is not all to your hurt--only part of it; for he is like your family physician, who comesand cures the mumps, and leaves the scarlet-fever behind.
If your man is a Lake-Borgne-relief theorist, for instance,he will exhale a cloud of deadly facts and statistics which will layyou out with that disease, sure; but at the same time he will cureyou of any other of the five theories that may have previously gotinto your system.
I have had all the five; and had them 'bad;' but ask me not,in mournful numbers, which one racked me hardest, or whichone numbered the biggest sick list, for I do not know.
In truth, no one can answer the latter question.
Mississippi Improvement is a mighty topic, down yonder.
Every man on the river banks, south of Cairo, talks about itevery day, during such moments as he is able to spare fromtalking about the war; and each of the several chief theorieshas its host of zealous partisans; but, as I have said,it is not possible to determine which cause numbersthe most recruits.
All were agreed upon one point, however:  if Congress would makea sufficient appropriation, a colossal benefit would result.
Very well; since then the appropriation has been made--possibly a sufficient one, certainly not too large a one.
Let us hope that the prophecy will be amply fulfilled.
One thing will be easily granted by the reader; that an opinion fromMr
Edward Atkinson, upon any vast national commercial matter, comes as nearranking as authority, as can the opinion of any individual in the Union.
Sometimes, half a dozen figures will reveal, as with a lightning-flash,the importance of a subject which ten thousand labored words,with the same purpose in view, had left at last but dim and uncertain.
Here is a case of the sort--paragraph from the 'Cincinnati Commercial'-
Her freight bill, at 3 cents a bushel, amounts to$18,000
It would take eighteen hundred cars, of three hundred andthirty-three bushels to the car, to transport this amount of coal.
At $10 per ton, or $100 per car, which would be a fair price forthe distance by rail, the freight bill would amount to $180,000,or $162,000 more by rail than by river
The tow will be takenfrom Pittsburg to New Orleans in fourteen or fifteen days.
It would take one hundred trains of eighteen cars to the trainto transport this one tow of six hundred thousand bushels of coal,and even if it made the usual speed of fast freight lines, it wouldtake one whole summer to put it through by rail.'
When a river in good condition can enable one to save $162,000 and a wholesummer's time, on a single cargo, the wisdom of taking measures to keepthe river in good condition is made plain to even the uncommercial mind.
A Few Specimen Bricks
WE passed through the Plum Point region, turned Craighead's Point,and glided unchallenged by what was once the formidable Fort Pillow,memorable because of the massacre perpetrated there during the war.
Massacres are sprinkled with some frequency through the historiesof several Christian nations, but this is almost the only onethat can be found in American history; perhaps it is the only onewhich rises to a size correspondent to that huge and somber title.
We have the 'Boston Massacre,' where two or three people were killed;but we must bunch Anglo-Saxon history together to find the fellowto the Fort Pillow tragedy; and doubtless even then we must travelback to the days and the performances of Coeur de Lion, that fine'hero,' before we accomplish it.
More of the river's freaks
In times past, the channel usedto strike above Island 37, by Brandywine Bar, and down towardsIsland 39
Afterward, changed its course and went fromBrandywine down through Vogelman's chute in the Devil's Elbow,to Island 39--part of this course reversing the old order;the river running UP four or five miles, instead of down,and cutting off, throughout, some fifteen miles of distance.
This in 1876
All that region is now called Centennial Island.
There is a tradition that Island 37 was one of the principal abidingplaces of the once celebrated 'Murel's Gang.'
This was a colossalcombination of robbers, horse-thieves, negro-stealers, and counterfeiters,engaged in business along the river some fifty or sixty years ago.
While our journey across the country towards St
Louis was inprogress we had had no end of Jesse James and his stirring history;for he had just been assassinated by an agent of the Governor of Missouri,and was in consequence occupying a good deal of space in the newspapers.
Cheap histories of him were for sale by train boys
According to these,he was the most marvelous creature of his kind that had ever existed.
It was a mistake
Murel was his equal in boldness; in pluck; in rapacity;in cruelty, brutality, heartlessness, treachery, and in general andcomprehensive vileness and shamelessness; and very much his superiorin some larger aspects
James was a retail rascal; Murel, wholesale.
James's modest genius dreamed of no loftier flight than the planningof raids upon cars, coaches, and country banks; Murel projectednegro insurrections and the capture of New Orleans; and furthermore,on occasion, this Murel could go into a pulpit and edify the congregation.
What are James and his half-dozen vulgar rascals compared with thisstately old-time criminal, with his sermons, his meditated insurrectionsand city-captures, and his majestic following of ten hundred men,sworn to do his evil will!
Here is a paragraph or two concerning this big operator,from a now forgotten book which was published half a century ago--
He appears to have been a most dexterous as well as consummate villain.
When he traveled, his usual disguise was that of an itinerant preacher;and it is said that his discourses were very 'soul-moving'--interestingthe hearers so much that they forgot to look after their horses,which were carried away by his confederates while he was preaching.
But the stealing of horses in one State, and selling them in another,was but a small portion of their business; the most lucrativewas the enticing slaves to run away from their masters, that theymight sell them in another quarter
This was arranged as follows;they would tell a negro that if he would run away from his master,and allow them to sell him, he should receive a portion of the moneypaid for him, and that upon his return to them a second time they wouldsend him to a free State, where he would be safe
The poor wretchescomplied with this request, hoping to obtain money and freedom;they would be sold to another master, and run away again, to their employers;sometimes they would be sold in this manner three or four times,until they had realized three or four thousand dollars by them;but as, after this, there was fear of detection, the usual custom wasto get rid of the only witness that could be produced against them,which was the negro himself, by murdering him, and throwing his body intothe Mississippi
Even if it was established that they had stolen a negro,before he was murdered, they were always prepared to evade punishment;for they concealed the negro who had run away, until he was advertised,and a reward offered to any man who would catch him
An advertisementof this kind warrants the person to take the property, if found.
And then the negro becomes a property in trust, when, therefore,they sold the negro, it only became a breach of trust, not stealing;and for a breach of trust, the owner of the property can only have redressby a civil action, which was useless, as the damages were never paid.
It may be inquired, how it was that Murel escaped Lynch law undersuch circumstances This will be easily understood when it is statedthat he had MORE THAN A THOUSAND SWORN CONFEDERATES, all ready ata moment's notice to support any of the gang who might be in trouble.
The names of all the principal confederates of Murel were obtainedfrom himself, in a manner which I shall presently explain.
The gang was composed of two classes:  the Heads or Council, as theywere called, who planned and concerted, but seldom acted; they amountedto about four hundred
The other class were the active agents,and were termed strikers, and amounted to about six hundred and fifty.
These were the tools in the hands of the others; they ran all the risk,and received but a small portion of the money; they were in the powerof the leaders of the gang, who would sacrifice them at any time by handingthem over to justice, or sinking their bodies in the Mississippi.
The general rendezvous of this gang of miscreants was on the Arkansasside of the river, where they concealed their negroes in the morasses andcane-brakes.
The depredations of this extensive combination were severely felt;but so well were their plans arranged, that although Murel,who was always active, was everywhere suspected, there was no proofto be obtained
It so happened, however, that a young man of the nameof Stewart, who was looking after two slaves which Murel had decoyedaway, fell in with him and obtained his confidence, took the oath,and was admitted into the gang as one of the General Council.
By this means all was discovered; for Stewart turned traitor,although he had taken the oath, and having obtained every information,exposed the whole concern, the names of all the parties, and finallysucceeded in bringing home sufficient evidence against Murel,to procure his conviction and sentence to the Penitentiary(Murel was sentenced to fourteen years' imprisonment); so manypeople who were supposed to be honest, and bore a respectablename in the different States, were found to be among the listof the Grand Council as published by Stewart, that every attemptwas made to throw discredit upon his assertions--his characterwas vilified, and more than one attempt was made to assassinate him.
He was obliged to quit the Southern States in consequence.
It is, however, now well ascertained to have been all true;and although some blame Mr
Stewart for having violated his oath,they no longer attempt to deny that his revelations were correct.
I will quote one or two portions of Murel's confessions toMr
Stewart, made to him when they were journeying together.
I ought to have observed, that the ultimate intentions of Mureland his associates were, by his own account, on a very extended scale;having no less an object in view than RAISING THE BLACKS AGAINSTTHE WHITES, TAKING POSSESSION OF, AND PLUNDERING NEW ORLEANS,AND MAKING THEMSELVES POSSESSORS OF THE TERRITORY
The following area few extracts:--
'I collected all my friends about New Orleans at one of our friends'houses in that place, and we sat in council three days before wegot all our plans to our notion; we then determined to undertakethe rebellion at every hazard, and make as many friends as wecould for that purpose
Every man's business being assigned him,I started to Natchez on foot, having sold my horse in New Orleans,--with the intention of stealing another after I started.
I walked four days, and no opportunity offered for me to get a horse.
The fifth day, about twelve, I had become tired, and stopped at a creekto get some water and rest a little
While I was sitting on a log,looking down the road the way that I had come, a man came in sightriding on a good-looking horse
The very moment I saw him, I wasdetermined to have his horse, if he was in the garb of a traveler.
He rode up, and I saw from his equipage that he was a traveler.
I arose and drew an elegant rifle pistol on him and ordered him to dismount.
He did so, and I took his horse by the bridle and pointed down the creek,and ordered him to walk before me
He went a few hundred yardsand stopped
I hitched his horse, and then made him undress himself,all to his shirt and drawers, and ordered him to turn his back to me.
He said, 'If you are determined to kill me, let me have time to praybefore I die,' I told him I had no time to hear him pray
He turned aroundand dropped on his knees, and I shot him through the back of the head.
I ripped open his belly and took out his entrails, and sunk him in the creek.
I then searched his pockets, and found four hundred dollars and thirty-sevencents, and a number of papers that I did not take time to examine.
I sunk the pocket-book and papers and his hat, in the creek.
His boots were brand-new, and fitted me genteelly; and I putthem on and sunk my old shoes in the creek, to atone for them.
I rolled up his clothes and put them into his portmanteau, as they werebrand-new cloth of the best quality
I mounted as fine a horse as everI straddled, and directed my course for Natchez in much better stylethan I had been for the last five days.
'Myself and a fellow by the name of Crenshaw gathered four goodhorses and started for Georgia
We got in company with a youngSouth Carolinian just before we got to Cumberland Mountain,and Crenshaw soon knew all about his business
He had beento Tennessee to buy a drove of hogs, but when he got there porkwas dearer than he calculated, and he declined purchasing.
We concluded he was a prize
Crenshaw winked at me; I understoodhis idea
Crenshaw had traveled the road before, but I never had;we had traveled several miles on the mountain, when he passednear a great precipice; just before we passed it Crenshaw askedme for my whip, which had a pound of lead in the butt; I handedit to him, and he rode up by the side of the South Carolinian,and gave him a blow on the side of the head and tumbled himfrom his horse; we lit from our horses and fingered his pockets;we got twelve hundred and sixty-two dollars
Crenshaw saidhe knew a place to hide him, and he gathered him under his arms,and I by his feet, and conveyed him to a deep crevice in the browof the precipice, and tumbled him into it, and he went out of sight;we then tumbled in his saddle, and took his horse with us, which wasworth two hundred dollars.
'We were detained a few days, and during that time our friend wentto a little village in the neighborhood and saw the negro advertised(a negro in our possession), and a description of the two men of whomhe had been purchased, and giving his suspicions of the men.
It was rather squally times, but any port in a storm:we took the negro that night on the bank of a creek which runsby the farm of our friend, and Crenshaw shot him through the head.
We took out his entrails and sunk him in the creek.
'He had sold the other negro the third time on Arkansaw River for upwardsof five hundred dollars; and then stole him and delivered him into the handof his friend, who conducted him to a swamp, and veiled the tragic scene,and got the last gleanings and sacred pledge of secrecy; as a game of thatkind will not do unless it ends in a mystery to all but the fraternity.
He sold the negro, first and last, for nearly two thousand dollars,and then put him for ever out of the reach of all pursuers; and they cannever graze him unless they can find the negro; and that they cannot do,for his carcass has fed many a tortoise and catfish before this time,and the frogs have sung this many a long day to the silent reposeof his skeleton.'
We were approaching Memphis, in front of which city, and witnessed byits people, was fought the most famous of the river battles of the Civil War.
Two men whom I had served under, in my river days, took part in that fight:Mr
Bixby, head pilot of the Union fleet, and Montgomery, Commodore of theConfederate fleet
Both saw a great deal of active service during the war,and achieved high reputations for pluck and capacity.
As we neared Memphis, we began to cast about for an excuse to staywith the 'Gold Dust' to the end of her course--Vicksburg
We wereso pleasantly situated, that we did not wish to make a change.
I had an errand of considerable importance to do at Napoleon, Arkansas,but perhaps I could manage it without quitting the 'Gold Dust.'
I said as much; so we decided to stick to present quarters.
The boat was to tarry at Memphis till ten the next morning
It is abeautiful city, nobly situated on a commanding bluff overlooking the river.
The streets are straight and spacious, though not paved in a way to incitedistempered admiration
No, the admiration must be reserved for the town'ssewerage system, which is called perfect; a recent reform, however, for itwas just the other way, up to a few years ago--a reform resulting fromthe lesson taught by a desolating visitation of the yellow-fever
Inthose awful days the people were swept off by hundreds, by thousands;and so great was the reduction caused by flight and by death together,that the population was diminished three-fourths, and so remained for a time.
Business stood nearly still, and the streets bore an empty Sunday aspect.
Here is a picture of Memphis, at that disastrous time,drawn by a German tourist who seems to have been an eye-witnessof the scenes which he describes
'In August the yellow-fever had reached its extremest height.
Daily, hundreds fell a sacrifice to the terrible epidemic.
The city was become a mighty graveyard, two-thirds of the populationhad deserted the place, and only the poor, the aged and the sick,remained behind, a sure prey for the insidious enemy.
The houses were closed:  little lamps burned in front of many--a sign that here death had entered
Often, several laydead in a single house; from the windows hung black crape.
The stores were shut up, for their owners were gone away or dead.
Fearful evil!
In the briefest space it struck down and swept awayeven the most vigorous victim
A slight indisposition, then an hourof fever, then the hideous delirium, then--the Yellow Death !
On the street corners, and in the squares, lay sick men, suddenly overtakenby the disease; and even corpses, distorted and rigid
Food failed.
Meat spoiled in a few hours in the fetid and pestiferous air,and turned black.
'Fearful clamors issue from many houses; then after a seasonthey cease, and all is still:  noble, self-sacrificing men comewith the coffin, nail it up, and carry it away, to the graveyard.
In the night stillness reigns
Only the physicians and thehearses hurry through the streets; and out of the distance,at intervals, comes the muffled thunder of the railway train,which with the speed of the wind, and as if hunted by furies,flies by the pest-ridden city without halting.'
But there is life enough there now
The population exceeds forty thousandand is augmenting, and trade is in a flourishing condition
We droveabout the city; visited the park and the sociable horde of squirrels there;saw the fine residences, rose-clad and in other ways enticing to the eye;and got a good breakfast at the hotel.
A thriving place is the Good Samaritan City of the Mississippi:has a great wholesale jobbing trade; foundries, machine shops;and manufactories of wagons, carriages, and cotton-seed oil;and is shortly to have cotton mills and elevators.
Her cotton receipts reached five hundred thousand bales last year--an increase of sixty thousand over the year before
Out fromher healthy commercial heart issue five trunk lines of railway;and a sixth is being added.
This is a very different Memphis from the one which the vanishedand unremembered procession of foreign tourists used to putinto their books long time ago
In the days of the nowforgotten but once renowned and vigorously hated Mrs
Trollope,Memphis seems to have consisted mainly of one long street oflog-houses, with some outlying cabins sprinkled around rearwardtoward the woods; and now and then a pig, and no end of mud.
That was fifty-five years ago
She stopped at the hotel.
Plainly it was not the one which gave us our breakfast.
They ate in perfect silence, and with such astonishing rapiditythat their dinner was over literally before ours was begun;the only sounds heard were those produced by the knives and forks,with the unceasing chorus of coughing, ETC.'
stands for an unpleasant word there,a word which she does not always charitably cover up, but sometimes prints.
You will find it in the following description of a steamboat dinnerwhich she ate in company with a lot of aristocratic planters;wealthy, well-born, ignorant swells they were, tinselled with the usualharmless military and judicial titles of that old day of cheap shamsand windy pretense--
'The total want of all the usual courtesies of the table;the voracious rapidity with which the viands were seizedand devoured; the strange uncouth phrases and pronunciation;the loathsome spitting, from the contamination of which itwas absolutely impossible to protect our dresses; the frightfulmanner of feeding with their knives, till the whole bladeseemed to enter into the mouth; and the still more frightfulmanner of cleaning the teeth afterward with a pocket knife,soon forced us to feel that we were not surroundedby the generals, colonels, and majors of the old world;and that the dinner hour was to be anything rather than anhour of enjoyment.'
Sketches by the Way
IT was a big river, below Memphis; banks brimming full, everywhere,and very frequently more than full, the waters pouring out overthe land, flooding the woods and fields for miles into the interior;and in places, to a depth of fifteen feet; signs, all about,of men's hard work gone to ruin, and all to be doneover again, with straitened means and a weakened courage.
A melancholy picture, and a continuous one;--hundreds of miles of it.
Sometimes the beacon lights stood in water three feet deep,in the edge of dense forests which extended for miles without farm,wood-yard, clearing, or break of any kind; which meant thatthe keeper of the light must come in a skiff a great distanceto discharge his trust,--and often in desperate weather.
Yet I was told that the work is faithfully performed,in all weathers; and not always by men, sometimes by women,if the man is sick or absent
The Government furnishes oil,and pays ten or fifteen dollars a month for the lighting and tending.
A Government boat distributes oil and pays wages once a month.
The Ship Island region was as woodsy and tenantless as ever.
The island has ceased to be an island; has joined itself compactlyto the main shore, and wagons travel, now, where the steamboats usedto navigate
No signs left of the wreck of the 'Pennsylvania.'
Some farmer will turn up her bones with his plow one day, no doubt,and be surprised.
We were getting down now into the migrating negro region.
These poor people could never travel when they were slaves;so they make up for the privation now
They stay on a plantation tillthe desire to travel seizes them; then they pack up, hail a steamboat,and clear out
Not for any particular place; no, nearly anyplace will answer; they only want to be moving
The amountof money on hand will answer the rest of the conundrum for them.
If it will take them fifty miles, very well; let it be fifty.
If not, a shorter flight will do.
During a couple of days, we frequently answered these hails.
Sometimes there was a group of high-water-stained, tumble-down cabins,populous with colored folk, and no whites visible; with grasslesspatches of dry ground here and there; a few felled trees,with skeleton cattle, mules, and horses, eating the leaves andgnawing the bark--no other food for them in the flood-wasted land.
Sometimes there was a single lonely landing-cabin; near itthe colored family that had hailed us; little and big, old and young,roosting on the scant pile of household goods; these consistingof a rusty gun, some bed-ticks, chests, tinware, stools, a crippledlooking-glass, a venerable arm-chair, and six or eight base-bornand spiritless yellow curs, attached to the family by strings.
They must have their dogs; can't go without their dogs.
Yet the dogs are never willing; they always object; so, one after another,in ridiculous procession, they are dragged aboard; all four feetbraced and sliding along the stage, head likely to be pulled off;but the tugger marching determinedly forward, bending to his work,with the rope over his shoulder for better purchase.
Sometimes a child is forgotten and left on the bank; but nevera dog.
They said Jesse Jamieson, in the 'Skylark,' had a visiting pilotwith him one trip--a poor old broken-down, superannuated fellow--left him at the wheel, at the foot of 63, to run off the watch.
The ancient mariner went up through the chute, and down the river outside;and up the chute and down the river again; and yet again and again;and handed the boat over to the relieving pilot, at the end of threehours of honest endeavor, at the same old foot of the island wherehe had originally taken the wheel!
A darkey on shore who had observedthe boat go by, about thirteen times, said, ' 'clar to gracious,I wouldn't be s'prised if dey's a whole line o' dem Sk'ylarks!
Anecdote illustrative of influence of reputation in the changingof opinion
The 'Eclipse' was renowned for her swiftness.
One day she passed along; an old darkey on shore, absorbed inhis own matters, did not notice what steamer it was.
Is dat so?
Well, I bet it was--cause she jes' went by here a-SPARKLIN'!'
Piece of history illustrative of the violent style of some of the peopledown along here, During the early weeks of high water, A's fence railswashed down on B's ground, and B's rails washed up in the eddy and landedon A's ground
A said, 'Let the thing remain so; I will use your rails,and you use mine.'
But B objected--wouldn't have it so
One day,A came down on B's ground to get his rails
B said, 'I'll kill you!'
and proceeded for him with his revolver
A said, 'I'm not armed.'
So B, who wished to do only what was right, threw down his revolver;then pulled a knife, and cut A's throat all around, but gave hisprincipal attention to the front, and so failed to sever the jugular.
Struggling around, A managed to get his hands on the discarded revolver,and shot B dead with it--and recovered from his own injuries.
Further gossip;--after which, everybody went below to getafternoon coffee, and left me at the wheel, alone,Something presently reminded me of our last hour in St
Louis,part of which I spent on this boat's hurricane deck, aft.
I was joined there by a stranger, who dropped into conversationwith me--a brisk young fellow, who said he was born in a townin the interior of Wisconsin, and had never seen a steamboatuntil a week before
Also said that on the way down from LaCrosse he had inspected and examined his boat so diligentlyand with such passionate interest that he had mastered the wholething from stem to rudder-blade
Asked me where I was from.
I answered, New England
'Oh, a Yank!'
said he; and wentchatting straight along, without waiting for assent or denial.
He immediately proposed to take me all over the boat and tellme the names of her different parts, and teach me their uses.
Before I could enter protest or excuse, he was alreadyrattling glibly away at his benevolent work; and when Iperceived that he was misnaming the things, and inhospitablyamusing himself at the expense of an innocent stranger froma far country, I held my peace, and let him have his way.
He gave me a world of misinformation; and the further he went,the wider his imagination expanded, and the more he enjoyedhis cruel work of deceit
Sometimes, after palming offa particularly fantastic and outrageous lie upon me, he wasso 'full of laugh' that he had to step aside for a minute,upon one pretext or another, to keep me from suspecting.
I staid faithfully by him until his comedy was finished.
Then he remarked that he had undertaken to 'learn' meall about a steamboat, and had done it; but that if he hadoverlooked anything, just ask him and he would supply the lack.'
Anything about this boat that you don't know the nameof or the purpose of, you come to me and I'll tell you.'
I said I would, and took my departure; disappeared, and approachedhim from another quarter, whence he could not see me.
There he sat, all alone, doubling himself up and writhingthis way and that, in the throes of unappeasable laughter.
He must have made himself sick; for he was not publicly visibleafterward for several days
Meantime, the episode dropped outof my mind.
The thing that reminded me of it now, when I was alone at the wheel,was the spectacle of this young fellow standing in the pilot-house door,with the knob in his hand, silently and severely inspecting me.
I don't know when I have seen anybody look so injured as he did.
He did not say anything--simply stood there and looked;reproachfully looked and pondered
Finally he shut the door,and started away; halted on the texas a minute; came slowly backand stood in the door again, with that grieved look in his face;gazed upon me awhile in meek rebuke, then said--
'You let me learn you all about a steamboat, didn't you?'
'Yes,' I confessed.
'Yes, you did--DIDN'T you?'
' You are the feller that--that-- --'
Pause--impotent struggle for further words--then he gave it up, choked out a deep, strong oath, and departed for good.
Afterward I saw him several times below during the trip; but he was cold--would not look at me
Idiot, if he had not been in such a sweatto play his witless practical joke upon me, in the beginning,I would have persuaded his thoughts into some other direction,and saved him from committing that wanton and silly impoliteness.
I had myself called with the four o'clock watch, mornings,for one cannot see too many summer sunrises on the Mississippi.
They are enchanting
First, there is the eloquence of silence;for a deep hush broods everywhere
Next, there is the hauntingsense of loneliness, isolation, remoteness from the worryand bustle of the world
The dawn creeps in stealthily;the solid walls of black forest soften to gray, and vaststretches of the river open up and reveal themselves; the wateris glass-smooth, gives off spectral little wreaths of white mist,there is not the faintest breath of wind, nor stir of leaf;the tranquillity is profound and infinitely satisfying.
Then a bird pipes up, another follows, and soon the pipingsdevelop into a jubilant riot of music
You see none of the birds;you simply move through an atmosphere of song which seemsto sing itself
When the light has become a little stronger,you have one of the fairest and softest pictures imaginable.
You have the intense green of the massed and crowded foliagenear by; you see it paling shade by shade in front of you;upon the next projecting cape, a mile off or more, the tinthas lightened to the tender young green of spring; the capebeyond that one has almost lost color, and the furthest one,miles away under the horizon, sleeps upon the water a meredim vapor, and hardly separable from the sky above itand about it
And all this stretch of river is a mirror,and you have the shadowy reflections of the leafage andthe curving shores and the receding capes pictured in it.
Well, that is all beautiful; soft and rich and beautiful;and when the sun gets well up, and distributes a pink flushhere and a powder of gold yonder and a purple haze where it willyield the best effect, you grant that you have seen somethingthat is worth remembering.
We had the Kentucky Bend country in the early morning--scene of a strange and tragic accident in the old times,Captain Poe had a small stern-wheel boat, for years the homeof himself and his wife
One night the boat struck a snag inthe head of Kentucky Bend, and sank with astonishing suddenness;water already well above the cabin floor when the captain got aft.
So he cut into his wife's state-room from above with an ax;she was asleep in the upper berth, the roof a flimsier one thanwas supposed; the first blow crashed down through the rottenboards and clove her skull.
This bend is all filled up now--result of a cut-off; and the sameagent has taken the great and once much-frequented Walnut Bend,and set it away back in a solitude far from the accustomed trackof passing steamers.
Helena we visited, and also a town I had not heard of before, it beingof recent birth--Arkansas City
It was born of a railway; the Little Rock,Mississippi River and Texas Railroad touches the river there.
We asked a passenger who belonged there what sort of a place it was.'
Well,' said he, after considering, and with the air of one whowishes to take time and be accurate, 'It's a hell of a place.'
A description which was photographic for exactness
There wereseveral rows and clusters of shabby frame-houses, and a supply of mudsufficient to insure the town against a famine in that articlefor a hundred years; for the overflow had but lately subsided.
There were stagnant ponds in the streets, here and there, and a dozenrude scows were scattered about, lying aground wherever they happenedto have been when the waters drained off and people could do theirvisiting and shopping on foot once more
Still, it is a thriving place,with a rich country behind it, an elevator in front of it,and also a fine big mill for the manufacture of cotton-seed oil.
I had never seen this kind of a mill before.
Cotton-seed was comparatively valueless in my time; but itis worth $12 or $13 a ton now, and none of it is thrown away.
The oil made from it is colorless, tasteless, and almost if notentirely odorless
It is claimed that it can, by proper manipulation,be made to resemble and perform the office of any and all oils,and be produced at a cheaper rate than the cheapest of the originals.
Sagacious people shipped it to Italy, doctored it, labeled it,and brought it back as olive oil
This trade grew to be so formidablethat Italy was obliged to put a prohibitory impost upon it to keep itfrom working serious injury to her oil industry.
Helena occupies one of the prettiest situations on the Mississippi.
Her perch is the last, the southernmost group of hills which one seeson that side of the river
In its normal condition it is a pretty town;but the flood (or possibly the seepage) had lately been ravaging it;whole streets of houses had been invaded by the muddy water,and the outsides of the buildings were still belted with a broad stainextending upwards from the foundations
Stranded and discarded scows layall about; plank sidewalks on stilts four feet high were still standing;the board sidewalks on the ground level were loose and ruinous,--a couple of men trotting along them could make a blind man thinka cavalry charge was coming; everywhere the mud was black and deep,and in many places malarious pools of stagnant water were standing.
A Mississippi inundation is the next most wasting and desolatinginfliction to a fire.
We had an enjoyable time here, on this sunny Sunday:two full hours' liberty ashore while the boat discharged freight.
In the back streets but few white people were visible,but there were plenty of colored folk--mainly women and girls;and almost without exception upholstered in bright new clothesof swell and elaborate style and cut--a glaring and hilariouscontrast to the mournful mud and the pensive puddles.
Helena is the second town in Arkansas, in point of population--which is placed at five thousand
The country about it isexceptionally productive
Helena has a good cotton trade;handles from forty to sixty thousand bales annually; she hasa large lumber and grain commerce; has a foundry, oil mills,machine shops and wagon factories--in brief has $1,000,000invested in manufacturing industries
She has two railways,and is the commercial center of a broad and prosperous region.
Her gross receipts of money, annually, from all sources, are placed bythe New Orleans 'Times-Democrat' at $4,000,000.
A Thumb-print and What Came of It
WE were approaching Napoleon, Arkansas
So I began to thinkabout my errand there
Time, noonday; and bright and sunny.
This was bad--not best, anyway; for mine was not(preferably) a noonday kind of errand
The more I thought,the more that fact pushed itself upon me--now in one form,now in another
Finally, it took the form of a distinct question:is it good common sense to do the errand in daytime, when, by alittle sacrifice of comfort and inclination, you can have nightfor it, and no inquisitive eyes around
This settled it.
Plain question and plain answer make the shortest road outof most perplexities.
I got my friends into my stateroom, and said I was sorry to createannoyance and disappointment, but that upon reflection it reallyseemed best that we put our luggage ashore and stop over at Napoleon.
Their disapproval was prompt and loud; their language mutinous.
Their main argument was one which has always been the first to cometo the surface, in such cases, since the beginning of time:'But you decided and AGREED to stick to this boat, etc.
; as if,having determined to do an unwise thing, one is thereby bound to go aheadand make TWO unwise things of it, by carrying out that determination.
I tried various mollifying tactics upon them, with reasonably good success:under which encouragement, I increased my efforts; and, to show them that Ihad not created this annoying errand, and was in no way to blame for it,I presently drifted into its history--substantially as follows:
Toward the end of last year, I spent a few months in Munich, Bavaria.
In November I was living in Fraulein Dahlweiner's PENSION,1a, Karlstrasse; but my working quarters were a mile from there,in the house of a widow who supported herself by taking lodgers.
She and her two young children used to drop in every morning and talkGerman to me--by request
One day, during a ramble about the city,I visited one of the two establishments where the Government keeps andwatches corpses until the doctors decide that they are permanently dead,and not in a trance state
It was a grisly place, that spacious room.
There were thirty-six corpses of adults in sight, stretched on theirbacks on slightly slanted boards, in three long rows--all of themwith wax-white, rigid faces, and all of them wrapped in white shrouds.
Along the sides of the room were deep alcoves, like bay windows;and in each of these lay several marble-visaged babes, utterly hidden andburied under banks of fresh flowers, all but their faces and crossed hands.
Around a finger of each of these fifty still forms, both greatand small, was a ring; and from the ring a wire led to the ceiling,and thence to a bell in a watch-room yonder, where, day and night,a watchman sits always alert and ready to spring to the aid of anyof that pallid company who, waking out of death, shall make a movement--for any, even the slightest, movement will twitch the wire and ringthat fearful bell
I imagined myself a death-sentinel drowsingthere alone, far in the dragging watches of some wailing, gusty night,and having in a twinkling all my body stricken to quivering jelly bythe sudden clamor of that awful summons!
So I inquired about this thing;asked what resulted usually?
if the watchman died, and the restoredcorpse came and did what it could to make his last moments easy.
But I was rebuked for trying to feed an idle and frivolous curiosityin so solemn and so mournful a place; and went my way witha humbled crest.
Next morning I was telling the widow my adventure, when she exclaimed--
'Come with me!
I have a lodger who shall tell you all you want to know.
He has been a night-watchman there.'
He was a living man, but he did not look it
He was abed, and hadhis head propped high on pillows; his face was wasted and colorless,his deep-sunken eyes were shut; his hand, lying on his breast,was talon-like, it was so bony and long-fingered
The widowbegan her introduction of me
The man's eyes opened slowly,and glittered wickedly out from the twilight of their caverns;he frowned a black frown; he lifted his lean hand and waved usperemptorily away
But the widow kept straight on, till shehad got out the fact that I was a stranger and an American.
The man's face changed at once; brightened, became even eager--and the next moment he and I were alone together.
I opened up in cast-iron German; he responded in quite flexible English;thereafter we gave the German language a permanent rest.
This consumptive and I became good friends
I visited him every day, and wetalked about everything
At least, about everything but wives and children.
Let anybody's wife or anybody's child be mentioned, and three thingsalways followed:  the most gracious and loving and tender light glimmeredin the man's eyes for a moment; faded out the next, and in its place camethat deadly look which had flamed there the first time I ever saw hislids unclose; thirdly, he ceased from speech, there and then for that day;lay silent, abstracted, and absorbed; apparently heard nothing that I said;took no notice of my good-byes, and plainly did not know, by either sightor hearing, when I left the room.
When I had been this Karl Ritter's daily and sole intimate during two months,he one day said, abruptly--
'I will tell you my story.'
But now I have given up.
I am going to die
I made up my mind last night that itmust be, and very soon, too
You say you are going torevisit your river, by-and-bye, when you find opportunity.
Very well; that, together with a certain strange experiencewhich fell to my lot last night, determines me to tell youmy history--for you will see Napoleon, Arkansas; and for mysake you will stop there, and do a certain thing for me--a thing which you will willingly undertake after you shall haveheard my narrative.
Let us shorten the story wherever we can, for it will need it, being long.
You already know how I came to go to America, and how I came to settlein that lonely region in the South
But you do not know that I had a wife.
My wife was young, beautiful, loving, and oh, so divinely good andblameless and gentle!
And our little girl was her mother in miniature.
It was the happiest of happy households.
One night--it was toward the close of the war--I woke upout of a sodden lethargy, and found myself bound and gagged,and the air tainted with chloroform!
I saw two men in the room,and one was saying to the other, in a hoarse whisper, 'I toldher I would, if she made a noise, and as for the child--'
The other man interrupted in a low, half-crying voice--
'You said we'd only gag them and rob them, not hurt them;or I wouldn't have come.'
'Shut up your whining; had to change the plan when they waked up;you done all you could to protect them, now let that satisfy you;come, help rummage.'
Both men were masked, and wore coarse, ragged 'nigger' clothes;they had a bull's-eye lantern, and by its light I noticedthat the gentler robber had no thumb on his right hand.
They rummaged around my poor cabin for a moment; the head banditthen said, in his stage whisper--
'It's a waste of time--he shall tell where it's hid.
Undo his gag, and revive him up.'
The other said--
'All right--provided no clubbing.'
'No clubbing it is, then--provided he keeps still.'
They approached me; just then there was a sound outside;a sound of voices and trampling hoofs; the robbers held theirbreath and listened; the sounds came slowly nearer and nearer;then came a shout--
'HELLO, the house!
Show a light, we want water.'
'The captain's voice, by G----!'
said the stage-whispering ruffian,and both robbers fled by the way of the back door, shutting offtheir bull's-eye as they ran.
The strangers shouted several times more, then rode by--there seemed to be a dozen of the horses--and I heard nothing more.
I struggled, but could not free myself from my bonds.
I tried to speak, but the gag was effective; I could not make a sound.
I listened for my wife's voice and my child's--listened long and intently,but no sound came from the other end of the room where their bed was.
This silence became more and more awful, more and more ominous,every moment
Could you have endured an hour of it, do you think?
Pity me, then, who had to endure three
Three hours--?
it was three ages!
Whenever the clock struck, it seemed as if years had gone by since Ihad heard it last
All this time I was struggling in my bonds;and at last, about dawn, I got myself free, and rose up and stretchedmy stiff limbs
I was able to distinguish details pretty well.
The floor was littered with things thrown there by the robbersduring their search for my savings
The first object that caughtmy particular attention was a document of mine which I had seenthe rougher of the two ruffians glance at and then cast away.
It had blood on it!
I staggered to the other end of the room.
Oh, poor unoffending, helpless ones, there they lay, their troubles ended,mine begun!
Did I appeal to the law--I?
Does it quench the pauper's thirst if the Kingdrink for him?
Oh, no, no, no--I wanted no impertinent interference ofthe law
Laws and the gallows could not pay the debt that was owing to me!
Let the laws leave the matter in my hands, and have no fears:  I wouldfind the debtor and collect the debt
How accomplish this, do you say?
How accomplish it, and feel so sure about it, when I had neither seenthe robbers' faces, nor heard their natural voices, nor had any ideawho they might be?
Nevertheless, I WAS sure--quite sure, quite confident.
I had a clue--a clue which you would not have valued--a clue which wouldnot have greatly helped even a detective, since he would lack the secretof how to apply it
I shall come to that, presently--you shall see.
Let us go on, now, taking things in their due order
There was onecircumstance which gave me a slant in a definite direction to begin with:Those two robbers were manifestly soldiers in tramp disguise; and notnew to military service, but old in it--regulars, perhaps; they didnot acquire their soldierly attitude, gestures, carriage, in a day,nor a month, nor yet in a year
So I thought, but said nothing.
And one of them had said, 'the captain's voice, by G----!'
--the one whoselife I would have
Two miles away, several regiments were in camp,and two companies of U.
S
When I learned that Captain Blakely,of Company C had passed our way, that night, with an escort, I said nothing,but in that company I resolved to seek my man
In conversation I studiouslyand persistently described the robbers as tramps, camp followers;and among this class the people made useless search, none suspecting thesoldiers but me.
Working patiently, by night, in my desolated home, I madea disguise for myself out of various odds and ends of clothing;in the nearest village I bought a pair of blue goggles.
By-and-bye, when the military camp broke up, and Company C wasordered a hundred miles north, to Napoleon, I secreted my smallhoard of money in my belt, and took my departure in the night.
When Company C arrived in Napoleon, I was already there.
Yes, I was there, with a new trade--fortune-teller
Not to seem partial,I made friends and told fortunes among all the companiesgarrisoned there; but I gave Company C the great bulk of my attentions.
I made myself limitlessly obliging to these particular men;they could ask me no favor, put upon me no risk, which I would decline.
I became the willing butt of their jokes; this perfected my popularity;I became a favorite.
I early found a private who lacked a thumb--what joy it was to me!
And when I found that he alone, of all the company, had losta thumb, my last misgiving vanished; I was SURE I was onthe right track
This man's name was Kruger, a German.
There were nine Germans in the company
I watched, to see who mightbe his intimates; but he seemed to have no especial intimates.
But I was his intimate; and I took care to make the intimacy grow.
Sometimes I so hungered for my revenge that I could hardlyrestrain myself from going on my knees and begging him to pointout the man who had murdered my wife and child; but I managedto bridle my tongue
I bided my time, and went on telling fortunes,as opportunity offered.
My apparatus was simple:  a little red paint and a bit of white paper.
I painted the ball of the client's thumb, took a print of it on the paper,studied it that night, and revealed his fortune to him next day.
What was my idea in this nonsense?
It was this:  When I was a youth,I knew an old Frenchman who had been a prison-keeper for thirty years,and he told me that there was one thing about a person which never changed,from the cradle to the grave--the lines in the ball of the thumb;and he said that these lines were never exactly alike in the thumbsof any two human beings
In these days, we photograph the new criminal,and hang his picture in the Rogues' Gallery for future reference;but that Frenchman, in his day, used to take a print of the ball of a newprisoner's thumb and put that away for future reference
He always saidthat pictures were no good--future disguises could make them useless;'The thumb's the only sure thing,' said he; 'you can't disguise that.'
And he used to prove his theory, too, on my friends and acquaintances;it always succeeded.
I went on telling fortunes
Every night I shut myself in, all alone,and studied the day's thumb-prints with a magnifying-glass
Imaginethe devouring eagerness with which I pored over those mazy red spirals,with that document by my side which bore the right-hand thumb-and-finger-marksof that unknown murderer, printed with the dearest blood--to me--that was ever shed on this earth!
And many and many a time I had to repeatthe same old disappointed remark, 'will they NEVER correspond!'
But my reward came at last
It was the print of the thumb of the forty-thirdman of Company C whom I had experimented on--Private Franz Adler.
An hour before, I did not know the murderer's name, or voice,or figure, or face, or nationality; but now I knew all these things!
I believed I might feel sure; the Frenchman's repeated demonstrationsbeing so good a warranty
Still, there was a way to MAKE sure.
I had an impression of Kruger's left thumb
In the morning I took him asidewhen he was off duty; and when we were out of sight and hearing of witnesses,I said, impressively-
'A part of your fortune is so grave, that I thought it would bebetter for you if I did not tell it in public
You and another man,whose fortune I was studying last night,--Private Adler,--have been murdering a woman and a child!
You are being dogged:within five days both of you will be assassinated.'
He dropped on his knees, frightened out of his wits;and for five minutes he kept pouring out the same set of words,like a demented person, and in the same half-crying way whichwas one of my memories of that murderous night in my cabin--
'I didn't do it; upon my soul I didn't do it; and I triedto keep HIM from doing it; I did, as God is my witness.
He did it alone.'
This was all I wanted
And I tried to get rid of the fool; but no,he clung to me, imploring me to save him from the assassin
'I have money--ten thousand dollars--hid away, the fruit of lootand thievery; save me--tell me what to do, and you shallhave it, every penny
Two-thirds of it is my cousin Adler's;but you can take it all
We hid it when we first came here.
But I hid it in a new place yesterday, and have not told him--shall not tell him
I was going to desert, and get away with it all.
It is gold, and too heavy to carry when one is running and dodging;but a woman who has been gone over the river two days to preparemy way for me is going to follow me with it; and if I got no chanceto describe the hiding-place to her I was going to slip my silverwatch into her hand, or send it to her, and she would understand.
There's a piece of paper in the back of the case, which tells it all.
Here, take the watch--tell me what to do!'
He was trying to press his watch upon me, and was exposing the paperand explaining it to me, when Adler appeared on the scene,about a dozen yards away
I said to poor Kruger--
'Put up your watch, I don't want it
You shan't cometo any harm
Go, now; I must tell Adler his fortune.
Presently I will tell you how to escape the assassin;meantime I shall have to examine your thumbmark again.
Say nothing to Adler about this thing--say nothing to anybody.'
He went away filled with fright and gratitude, poor devil.
I told Adler a long fortune--purposely so long that I couldnot finish it; promised to come to him on guard, that night,and tell him the really important part of it--the tragicalpart of it, I said--so must be out of reach of eavesdroppers.
They always kept a picket-watch outside the town--mere disciplineand ceremony--no occasion for it, no enemy around.
Toward midnight I set out, equipped with the countersign,and picked my way toward the lonely region where Adler wasto keep his watch
It was so dark that I stumbled right ona dim figure almost before I could get out a protecting word.
The sentinel hailed and I answered, both at the same moment.
I added, 'It's only me--the fortune-teller.'
Then I slipped to the poordevil's side, and without a word I drove my dirk into his heart!
YA WOHL, laughed I, it WAS the tragedy part of his fortune, indeed!
As he fell from his horse, he clutched at me, and my blue gogglesremained in his hand; and away plunged the beast dragging him,with his foot in the stirrup.
I fled through the woods, and made good my escape, leaving the accusinggoggles behind me in that dead man's hand.
This was fifteen or sixteen years ago
Since then I have wanderedaimlessly about the earth, sometimes at work, sometimes idle;sometimes with money, sometimes with none; but always tired of life,and wishing it was done, for my mission here was finished, with the actof that night; and the only pleasure, solace, satisfaction I had,in all those tedious years, was in the daily reflection,'I have killed him!'
Four years ago, my health began to fail
I had wandered into Munich,in my purposeless way
Being out of money, I sought work,and got it; did my duty faithfully about a year, and was thengiven the berth of night watchman yonder in that dead-housewhich you visited lately
The place suited my mood
I liked it.
I liked being with the dead--liked being alone with them.
I used to wander among those rigid corpses, and peer intotheir austere faces, by the hour
The later the time,the more impressive it was; I preferred the late time.
Sometimes I turned the lights low:  this gave perspective, you see;and the imagination could play; always, the dim receding ranksof the dead inspired one with weird and fascinating fancies.
Two years ago--I had been there a year then--I was sitting all alonein the watch-room, one gusty winter's night, chilled, numb, comfortless;drowsing gradually into unconsciousness; the sobbing of the windand the slamming of distant shutters falling fainter and fainterupon my dulling ear each moment, when sharp and suddenlythat dead-bell rang out a blood-curdling alarum over my head!
The shock of it nearly paralyzed me; for it was the first time I hadever heard it.
I gathered myself together and flew to the corpse-room
About midwaydown the outside rank, a shrouded figure was sitting upright,wagging its head slowly from one side to the other--a grisly spectacle!
Its side was toward me
I hurried to it and peered into its face.
Heavens, it was Adler!
Can you divine what my first thought was?
Put into words,it was this:  'It seems, then, you escaped me once:there will be a different result this time!'
Evidently this creature was suffering unimaginable terrors.
Think what it must have been to wake up in the midst of thatvoiceless hush, and, look out over that grim congregationof the dead!
What gratitude shone in his skinny white facewhen he saw a living form before him!
And how the fervencyof this mute gratitude was augmented when his eyes fellupon the life-giving cordials which I carried in my hands!
Then imagine the horror which came into this pinched face when Iput the cordials behind me, and said mockingly--
'Speak up, Franz Adler--call upon these dead
Doubtless they will listenand have pity; but here there is none else that will.'
He tried to speak, but that part of the shroud which bound his jaws,held firm and would not let him
He tried to lift imploring hands,but they were crossed upon his breast and tied
'Shout, Franz Adler; make the sleepers in the distantstreets hear you and bring help
Shout--and lose no time,for there is little to lose
What, you cannot?
That is a pity;but it is no matter--it does not always bring help.
When you and your cousin murdered a helpless woman and childin a cabin in Arkansas--my wife, it was, and my child!
--they shrieked for help, you remember; but it did no good;you remember that it did no good, is it not so?
Your teeth chatter--then why cannot you shout?
Loosen the bandages with your hands--then you can
Ah, I see--your hands are tied, they cannot aid you.
How strangely things repeat themselves, after long years;for MY hands were tied, that night, you remember?
Yes, tied muchas yours are now--how odd that is
I could not pull free.
It did not occur to you to untie me; it does not occurto me to untie you
Sh----!
there's a late footstep.
It is coming this way
Hark, how near it is!
One can countthe footfalls--one--two--three
There--it is just outside.
Now is the time!
Shout, man, shout!
--it is the one sole chancebetween you and eternity!
Ah, you see you have delayed too long--it is gone by
There--it is dying out
It is gone!
Think of it--reflect upon it--you have heard a human footstep for the last time.
How curious it must be, to listen to so common a sound as that,and know that one will never hear the fellow to it again.'
Oh, my friend, the agony in that shrouded face was ecstasy to see!
I thought of a new torture, and applied it--assisting myself with a trifleof lying invention--
'That poor Kruger tried to save my wife and child, and Idid him a grateful good turn for it when the time came.
I persuaded him to rob you; and I and a woman helped him to desert,and got him away in safety.'
A look as of surprise and triumphshone out dimly through the anguish in my victim's face.
I was disturbed, disquieted
'What, then--didn't he escape?'
A negative shake of the head.
'No?
What happened, then?'
The satisfaction in the shrouded face was still plainer.
The man tried to mumble out some words--could not succeed;tried to express something with his obstructed hands--failed;paused a moment, then feebly tilted his head, in a meaning way,toward the corpse that lay nearest him.
'Dead?'
I asked
'Failed to escape?
--caught in the act and shot?'
Negative shake of the head.
Again the man tried to do something with his hands
I watched closely,but could not guess the intent
I bent over and watched still more intently.
He had twisted a thumb around and was weakly punching at his breast with it.'
Ah--stabbed, do you mean?'
Affirmative nod, accompanied by a spectral smile of suchpeculiar devilishness, that it struck an awakening lightthrough my dull brain, and I cried--
'Did I stab him, mistaking him for you?
--for that stroke was meantfor none but you.'
The affirmative nod of the re-dying rascal was as joyous as his failingstrength was able to put into its expression.
'O, miserable, miserable me, to slaughter the pitying soul that,stood a friend to my darlings when they were helpless, and wouldhave saved them if he could!
miserable, oh, miserable, miserable me!'
I fancied I heard the muffled gurgle of a, mocking laugh.
I took my face out of my hands, and saw my enemy sinking back uponhis inclined board.
He was a satisfactory long time dying
He had a wonderful vitality,an astonishing constitution
Yes, he was a pleasant long time at it.
I got a chair and a newspaper, and sat down by him and read.
Occasionally I took a sip of brandy
This was necessary,on account of the cold
But I did it partly because I saw,that along at first, whenever I reached for the bottle,he thought I was going to give him some
I read aloud:mainly imaginary accounts of people snatched from the grave'sthreshold and restored to life and vigor by a few spoonsfulof liquor and a warm bath
Yes, he had a long, hard death of it--three hours and six minutes, from the time he rang his bell.
It is believed that in all these eighteen years that have elapsed sincethe institution of the corpse-watch, no shrouded occupant of the Bavariandead-houses has ever rung its bell
Well, it is a harmless belief.
Let it stand at that.
The chill of that death-room had penetrated my bones.
It revived and fastened upon me the disease which had beenafflicting me, but which, up to that night, had beensteadily disappearing
That man murdered my wife and my child;and in three days hence he will have added me to his list.
No matter--God!
how delicious the memory of it!
--I caught himescaping from his grave, and thrust him back into it.
After that night, I was confined to my bed for a week;but as soon as I could get about, I went to the dead-housebooks and got the number of the house which Adler had died in.
A wretched lodging-house, it was
It was my idea that he wouldnaturally have gotten hold of Kruger's effects, being his cousin;and I wanted to get Kruger's watch, if I could
But while I was sick,Adler's things had been sold and scattered, all except a few old letters,and some odds and ends of no value
However, through those letters,I traced out a son of Kruger's, the only relative left.
He is a man of thirty now, a shoemaker by trade, and living atNo
14 Konigstrasse, Mannheim--widower, with several small children.
Without explaining to him why, I have furnished two-thirds ofhis support, ever since.
Now, as to that watch--see how strangely things happen!
I traced it around and about Germany for more than a year,at considerable cost in money and vexation; and at last I got it.
Got it, and was unspeakably glad; opened it, and found nothingin it!
Why, I might have known that that bit of paper was notgoing to stay there all this time
Of course I gave up that tenthousand dollars then; gave it up, and dropped it out of my mind:and most sorrowfully, for I had wanted it for Kruger's son.
Last night, when I consented at last that I must die, I began tomake ready
I proceeded to burn all useless papers; and sure enough,from a batch of Adler's, not previously examined with thoroughness,out dropped that long-desired scrap!
I recognized it in a moment.
Here it is--I will translate it:
'Brick livery stable, stone foundation, middle of town, corner of Orleansand Market
Corner toward Court-house
Third stone, fourth row.
Stick notice there, saying how many are to come.'
There--take it, and preserve it
Kruger explained that that stonewas removable; and that it was in the north wall of the foundation,fourth row from the top, and third stone from the west.
The money is secreted behind it
He said the closing sentence wasa blind, to mislead in case the paper should fall into wrong hands.
It probably performed that office for Adler.
Now I want to beg that when you make your intended journey down the river,you will hunt out that hidden money, and send it to Adam Kruger, care ofthe Mannheim address which I have mentioned
It will make a rich man of him,and I shall sleep the sounder in my grave for knowing that I have donewhat I could for the son of the man who tried to save my wife and child--albeit my hand ignorantly struck him down, whereas the impulse of my heartwould have been to shield and serve him.
The Disposal of a Bonanza
'SUCH was Ritter's narrative,' said I to my two friends.
There was a profound and impressive silence, which lasteda considerable time; then both men broke into a fusilladeof exciting and admiring ejaculations over the strange incidentsof the tale; and this, along with a rattling fire of questions,was kept up until all hands were about out of breath.
Then my friends began to cool down, and draw off,under shelter of occasional volleys, into silence andabysmal reverie
For ten minutes now, there was stillness.
Then Rogers said dreamily--
'Ten thousand dollars.'
Adding, after a considerable pause--
It is a heap of money.'
Presently the poet inquired--
'Are you going to send it to him right away?'
'Yes,' I said
'It is a queer question.'
After a little, Rogers asked, hesitatingly:
'ALL of it?
'Certainly, all of it.'
I was going to say more, but stopped--was stopped by atrain of thought which started up in me
Thompson spoke,but my mind was absent, and I did not catch what he said.
But I heard Rogers answer--
'Yes, it seems so to me
It ought to be quite sufficient;for I don't see that he has done anything.'
Presently the poet said--
'When you come to look at it, it is more than sufficient
Just look at it--five thousand dollars!
Why, he couldn't spend it in a lifetime!
And it would injure him, too; perhaps ruin him--you want to look at that.
In a little while he would throw his last away, shut up his shop, maybe taketo drinking, maltreat his motherless children, drift into other evil courses,go steadily from bad to worse----'
'Yes, that's it,' interrupted Rogers, fervently, 'I've seen ita hundred times--yes, more than a hundred
You put money intothe hands of a man like that, if you want to destroy him, that's all;just put money into his hands, it's all you've got to do;and if it don't pull him down, and take all the usefulness out of him,and all the self-respect and everything, then I don't know human nature--ain't that so, Thompson?
And even if we were to give him a THIRDof it; why, in less than six months--'
'Less than six WEEKS, you'd better say!'
said I, warming up and breaking in.'
Unless he had that three thousand dollars in safe hands where he couldn'ttouch it, he would no more last you six weeks than---- '
'Of COURSE he wouldn't,' said Thompson; 'I've edited books for thatkind of people; and the moment they get their hands on the royalty--maybe it's three thousand, maybe it's two thousand----'
'What business has that shoemaker with two thousand dollars,I should like to know?'
broke in Rogers, earnestly
'A man perhapsperfectly contented now, there in Mannheim, surrounded by his own class,eating his bread with the appetite which laborious industry alonecan give, enjoying his humble life, honest, upright, pure in heart;and BLEST!
--yes, I say blest!
blest above all the myriads that goin silk attire and walk the empty artificial round of social folly--but just you put that temptation before him once!
just you lay fifteenhundred dollars before a man like that, and say----'
'Fifteen hundred devils!'
cried I, 'FIVE hundred would rot his principles,paralyze his industry, drag him to the rumshop, thence to the gutter,thence to the almshouse, thence to----'
'WHY put upon ourselves this crime, gentlemen?'
interrupted the poetearnestly and appealingly
'He is happy where he is, and AS he is.
Every sentiment of honor, every sentiment of charity, every sentimentof high and sacred benevolence warns us, beseeches us, commands us to leavehim undisturbed
That is real friendship, that is true friendship.
We could follow other courses that would be more showy; but none that wouldbe so truly kind and wise, depend upon it.'
After some further talk, it became evident that each of us, down in his heart,felt some misgivings over this settlement of the matter
It was manifestthat we all felt that we ought to send the poor shoemaker SOMETHING.
There was long and thoughtful discussion of this point; and we finally decidedto send him a chromo.
Well, now that everything seemed to be arranged satisfactorilyto everybody concerned, a new trouble broke out:  it transpired thatthese two men were expecting to share equally in the money with me.
That was not my idea
I said that if they got half of it between themthey might consider themselves lucky
'Who would have had ANY if it hadn't been for me?
I flung out the first hint--but for that it would all have gone to the shoemaker.'
Thompson said that he was thinking of the thing himself at the very momentthat Rogers had originally spoken.
I retorted that the idea would have occurred to me plenty soon enough,and without anybody's help
I was slow about thinking, maybe, but I was sure.
This matter warmed up into a quarrel; then into a fight; and each mangot pretty badly battered
As soon as I had got myself mended up aftera fashion, I ascended to the hurricane deck in a pretty sour humor.
I found Captain McCord there, and said, as pleasantly as my humor would permit--
'I have come to say good-bye, captain
I wish to go ashore at Napoleon.'
'Go ashore where?'
The captain laughed; but seeing that I was not in a jovial mood,stopped that and said--
'But are you serious?'
'Serious?
I certainly am.'
The captain glanced up at the pilot-house and said--
'He wants to get off at Napoleon!'
'That's what he says.'
'Great Caesar's ghost!'
Uncle Mumford approached along the deck
The captain said--
'Uncle, here's a friend of yours wants to get off at Napoleon!'
'Well, by ----?'
'Come, what is all this about?
Can't a man go ashore at Napoleonif he wants to?'
'Why, hang it, don't you know?
There ISN'T any Napoleon any more.
Hasn't been for years and years
The Arkansas River burst through it,tore it all to rags, and emptied it into the Mississippi!'
'Carried the WHOLE town away?
-banks, churches, jails,newspaper-offices, court-house, theater, fire department,livery stable EVERYTHING ?'
just a fifteen-minute job.'
or such a matter.
Didn't leave hide nor hair, shred nor shingle of it, except thefag-end of a shanty and one brick chimney
This boat is paddlingalong right now, where the dead-center of that town used to be;yonder is the brick chimney-all that's left of Napoleon.
These dense woods on the right used to be a mile back of the town.
Take a look behind you--up-stream--now you begin to recognizethis country, don't you?'
'Yes, I do recognize it now
It is the most wonderful thing I ever heard of;by a long shot the most wonderful--and unexpected.'
Thompson and Mr
Rogers had arrived, meantime, with satchelsand umbrellas, and had silently listened to the captain's news.
Thompson put a half-dollar in my hand and said softly--
'For my share of the chromo.'
Rogers followed suit.
Yes, it was an astonishing thing to see the Mississippi rollingbetween unpeopled shores and straight over the spot where Iused to see a good big self-complacent town twenty years ago.
Town that was county-seat of a great and important county; town witha big United States marine hospital; town of innumerable fights--an inquest every day; town where I had used to know the prettiest girl,and the most accomplished in the whole Mississippi Valley;town where we were handed the first printed news of the 'Pennsylvania's'mournful disaster a quarter of a century ago; a town no more--swallowed up, vanished, gone to feed the fishes; nothing left but afragment of a shanty and a crumbling brick chimney!
Refreshments and Ethics
IN regard to Island 74, which is situated not far from the former Napoleon,a freak of the river here has sorely perplexed the laws of men and madethem a vanity and a jest
When the State of Arkansas was chartered,she controlled 'to the center of the river'--a most unstable line
The Stateof Mississippi claimed 'to the channel'--another shifty and unstable line.
No
74 belonged to Arkansas
By and by a cut-off threw this big island outof Arkansas, and yet not within Mississippi
'Middle of the river' on oneside of it, 'channel' on the other
That is as I understand the problem.
Whether I have got the details right or wrong, this FACT remains:that here is this big and exceedingly valuable island of four thousand acres,thrust out in the cold, and belonging to neither the one State nor the other;paying taxes to neither, owing allegiance to neither
One man ownsthe whole island, and of right is 'the man without a country.'
Island 92 belongs to Arkansas
The river moved it overand joined it to Mississippi
A chap established a whiskeyshop there, without a Mississippi license, and enrichedhimself upon Mississippi custom under Arkansas protection(where no license was in those days required).
We glided steadily down the river in the usual privacy--steamboat or other moving thing seldom seen
Scenery as always:stretch upon stretch of almost unbroken forest, on both sidesof the river; soundless solitude
Here and there a cabin or two,standing in small openings on the gray and grassless banks--cabins which had formerly stood a quarter or half-mile fartherto the front, and gradually been pulled farther and farther backas the shores caved in
As at Pilcher's Point, for instance,where the cabins had been moved back three hundred yardsin three months, so we were told; but the caving banks hadalready caught up with them, and they were being conveyedrearward once more.
Napoleon had but small opinion of Greenville, Mississippi, in the old times;but behold, Napoleon is gone to the cat-fishes, and here is Greenville fullof life and activity, and making a considerable flourish in the Valley;having three thousand inhabitants, it is said, and doing a gross trade of$2,500,000 annually
A growing town.
There was much talk on the boat about the Calhoun Land Company,an enterprise which is expected to work wholesome results.
Colonel Calhoun, a grandson of the statesman, went to Bostonand formed a syndicate which purchased a large tract of land onthe river, in Chicot County, Arkansas--some ten thousand acres--for cotton-growing
The purpose is to work on a cash basis:buy at first hands, and handle their own product; supply their negrolaborers with provisions and necessaries at a trifling profit,say 8 or 10 per cent.
; furnish them comfortable quarters,etc.
, and encourage them to save money and remain on the place.
If this proves a financial success, as seems quite certain,they propose to establish a banking-house in Greenville,and lend money at an unburdensome rate of interest--6 per cent.
is spoken of.
The trouble heretofore has been--I am quoting remarks of plantersand steamboatmen--that the planters, although owning the land,were without cash capital; had to hypothecate both land and cropto carry on the business
Consequently, the commission dealerwho furnishes the money takes some risk and demands big interest--usually 10 per cent.
, and 2<half> per cent
for negotiating the loan.
The planter has also to buy his supplies through the same dealer,paying commissions and profits
Then when he ships his crop,the dealer adds his commissions, insurance, etc
So, taking itby and large, and first and last, the dealer's share of that cropis about 25 per cent.'
A cotton-planter's estimate of the average margin of profiton planting, in his section:  One man and mule will raise tenacres of cotton, giving ten bales cotton, worth, say, $500; costof producing, say $350; net profit, $150, or $15 per acre.
There is also a profit now from the cotton-seed, which formerlyhad little value--none where much transportation was necessary.
In sixteen hundred pounds crude cotton four hundred are lint,worth, say, ten cents a pound; and twelve hundred pounds of seed,worth $12 or $13 per ton
Maybe in future even the stems willnot be thrown away
Edward Atkinson says that for eachbale of cotton there are fifteen hundred pounds of stems,and that these are very rich in phosphate of lime and potash;that when ground and mixed with ensilage or cotton-seed meal(which is too rich for use as fodder in large quantities),the stem mixture makes a superior food, rich in all theelements needed for the production of milk, meat, and bone.
Heretofore the stems have been considered a nuisance.
Complaint is made that the planter remains grouty toward the former slave,since the war; will have nothing but a chill business relation with him,no sentiment permitted to intrude, will not keep a 'store' himself,and supply the negro's wants and thus protect the negro's pocketand make him able and willing to stay on the place and an advantageto him to do it, but lets that privilege to some thrifty Israelite,who encourages the thoughtless negro and wife to buy all sortsof things which they could do without--buy on credit, at big prices,month after month, credit based on the negro's share of the growing crop;and at the end of the season, the negro's share belongs to the Israelite,'the negro is in debt besides, is discouraged, dissatisfied, restless, and bothhe and the planter are injured; for he will take steamboat and migrate,and the planter must get a stranger in his place who does not know him,does not care for him, will fatten the Israelite a season, and follow hispredecessor per steamboat.
It is hoped that the Calhoun Company will show, by itshumane and protective treatment of its laborers, that itsmethod is the most profitable for both planter and negro;and it is believed that a general adoption of that methodwill then follow.
And where so many are saying their say, shall not thebarkeeper testify?
He is thoughtful, observant, never drinks;endeavors to earn his salary, and WOULD earn it if therewere custom enough
He says the people along here inMississippi and Louisiana will send up the river to buyvegetables rather than raise them, and they will comeaboard at the landings and buy fruits of the barkeeper.
Thinks they 'don't know anything but cotton;' believes theydon't know how to raise vegetables and fruit--'at least the mostof them.'
Says 'a nigger will go to H for a watermelon'('H' is all I find in the stenographer's report--means Halifax probably, though that seems a good way to gofor a watermelon)
Barkeeper buys watermelons for five centsup the river, brings them down and sells them for fifty.'
Why does he mix such elaborate and picturesque drinks for thenigger hands on the boat?'
Because they won't have any other.'
They want a big drink; don't make any difference whatyou make it of, they want the worth of their money.
You give a nigger a plain gill of half-a-dollar brandy forfive cents--will he touch it?
No
Ain't size enough to it.
But you put up a pint of all kinds of worthless rubbish, and heavein some red stuff to make it beautiful--red's the main thing--and he wouldn't put down that glass to go to a circus.'
All the bars on this Anchor Line are rented and ownedby one firm
They furnish the liquors from theirown establishment, and hire the barkeepers 'on salary.'
Good liquors?
Yes, on some of the boats, where there arethe kind of passengers that want it and can pay for it.
On the other boats?
No
Nobody but the deck hands and firemento drink it
'Brandy?
Yes, I've got brandy, plenty of it;but you don't want any of it unless you've made your will.'
It isn't as it used to be in the old times
Then everybody traveledby steamboat, everybody drank, and everybody treated everybody else.'
Now most everybody goes by railroad, and the rest don't drink.'
In the old times the barkeeper owned the bar himself, 'and wasgay and smarty and talky and all jeweled up, and was the toniestaristocrat on the boat; used to make $2,000 on a trip.
A father who left his son a steamboat bar, left him a fortune.
Now he leaves him board and lodging; yes, and washing,if a shirt a trip will do
Yes, indeedy, times are changed.
Why, do you know, on the principal line of boats onthe Upper Mississippi, they don't have any bar at all!
Sounds like poetry, but it's the petrified truth.'
I remembered Stack Island; also Lake Providence,Louisiana--which is the first distinctly Southern-looking townyou come to, downward-bound; lies level and low, shade-trees hungwith venerable gray beards of Spanish moss; 'restful, pensive,Sunday aspect about the place,' comments Uncle Mumford, with feeling--also with truth.
furnished some minor details of fact concerning thisregion which I would have hesitated to believe if I had notknown him to be a steamboat mate
He was a passenger of ours,a resident of Arkansas City, and bound to Vicksburg to join his boat,a little Sunflower packet
He was an austere man, and hadthe reputation of being singularly unworldly, for a river man.
Among other things, he said that Arkansas had been injured and keptback by generations of exaggerations concerning the mosquitoes here.
One may smile, said he, and turn the matter off as being a small thing;but when you come to look at the effects produced, in the wayof discouragement of immigration, and diminished values of property,it was quite the opposite of a small thing, or thing in any wiseto be coughed down or sneered at
These mosquitoes had beenpersistently represented as being formidable and lawless;whereas 'the truth is, they are feeble, insignificant in size,diffident to a fault, sensitive'--and so on, and so on; you wouldhave supposed he was talking about his family
But if he was softon the Arkansas mosquitoes, he was hard enough on the mosquitoesof Lake Providence to make up for it--'those Lake Providence colossi,'as he finely called them
He said that two of them could whip a dog,and that four of them could hold a man down; and except help come,they would kill him--'butcher him,' as he expressed it.
Referred in a sort of casual way--and yet significant way--to 'the fact that the life policy in its simplest form is unknownin Lake Providence--they take out a mosquito policy besides.'
He told many remarkable things about those lawless insects.
Among others, said he had seen them try to vote
Noticing thatthis statement seemed to be a good deal of a strain on us,he modified it a little:  said he might have been mistaken,as to that particular, but knew he had seen them aroundthe polls 'canvassing.'
Said he, 'I will not deceive you; he told me such a monstrous lie once,that it swelled my left ear up, and spread it so that I was actually not ableto see out around it; it remained so for months, and people came miles to seeme fan myself with it.'
Vicksburg During the Trouble
WE used to plow past the lofty hill-city, Vicksburg, down-stream;but we cannot do that now
A cut-off has made a country town of it,like Osceola, St
Genevieve, and several others
There iscurrentless water--also a big island--in front of Vicksburg now.
You come down the river the other side of the island,then turn and come up to the town; that is, in high water:in low water you can't come up, but must land some distance below it.
Signs and scars still remain, as reminders of Vicksburg'stremendous war experiences; earthworks, trees crippled bythe cannon balls, cave-refuges in the clay precipices, etc.
The caves did good service during the six weeks'bombardment of the city--May 8 to July 4, 1863
They wereused by the non-combatants--mainly by the women and children;not to live in constantly, but to fly to for safety on occasion.
They were mere holes, tunnels, driven into the perpendicularclay bank, then branched Y shape, within the hill.
Life in Vicksburg, during the six weeks was perhaps--but wait;here are some materials out of which to reproduce it:--
Population, twenty-seven thousand soldiers and threethousand non-combatants; the city utterly cut off from the world--walled solidly in, the frontage by gunboats, the rear by soldiersand batteries; hence, no buying and selling with the outside;no passing to and fro; no God-speeding a parting guest,no welcoming a coming one; no printed acres of world-wide newsto be read at breakfast, mornings--a tedious dull absence ofsuch matter, instead; hence, also, no running to see steamboatssmoking into view in the distance up or down, and plowing towardthe town--for none came, the river lay vacant and undisturbed;no rush and turmoil around the railway station, no strugglingover bewildered swarms of passengers by noisy mobs of hackmen--all quiet there; flour two hundred dollars a barrel, sugar thirty,corn ten dollars a bushel, bacon five dollars a pound,rum a hundred dollars a gallon; other things in proportion:consequently, no roar and racket of drays and carriages tearingalong the streets; nothing for them to do, among 
The cannon-thunder rages, shells scream and crash overhead, the ironrain pours down, one hour, two hours, three, possibly six, then stops;silence follows, but the streets are still empty; the silence continues;by-and-bye a head projects from a cave here and there and yonder,and reconnoitres, cautiously; the silence still continuing,bodies follow heads, and jaded, half smothered creatures groupthemselves about, stretch their cramped limbs, draw in deep draughtsof the grateful fresh air, gossip with the neighbors from the next cave;maybe straggle off home presently, or take a lounge through the town,if the stillness continues; and will scurry to the holes again,by-and-bye, when the war-tempest breaks forth once more.
There being but three thousand of these cave-dwellers--merely the population of a village--would they not cometo know each other, after a week or two, and familiarly;insomuch that the fortunate or unfortunate experiences of onewould be of interest to all?
Those are the materials furnished by history
From them might not almostanybody reproduce for himself the life of that time in Vicksburg?
Could you, who did not experience it, come nearer to reproducing itto the imagination of another non-participant than could a Vicksburgerwho did experience it?
It seems impossible; and yet there are reasonswhy it might not really be
When one makes his first voyage in a ship,it is an experience which multitudinously bristles with striking novelties;novelties which are in such sharp contrast with all this person's formerexperiences that they take a seemingly deathless grip upon his imaginationand memory
By tongue or pen he can make a landsman live that strangeand stirring voyage over with him; make him see it all and feel it all.
But if he wait?
If he make ten voyages in succession--what then?
Why, the thing has lost color, snap, surprise; and has become commonplace.
The man would have nothing to tell that would quicken a landsman's pulse.
Years ago, I talked with a couple of the Vicksburg non-combatants--a man and his wife
Left to tell their story in their own way,those people told it without fire, almost without interest.
A week of their wonderful life there would have made their tongues eloquentfor ever perhaps; but they had six weeks of it, and that wore the noveltyall out; they got used to being bomb-shelled out of home and into the ground;the matter became commonplace
After that, the possibility of theirever being startlingly interesting in their talks about it was gone.
What the man said was to this effect:--
'It got to be Sunday all the time
Seven Sundays in the week--to us, anyway.
We hadn't anything to do, and time hung heavy
Seven Sundays, and allof them broken up at one time or another, in the day or in the night,by a few hours of the awful storm of fire and thunder and iron
At firstwe used to shin for the holes a good deal faster than we did afterwards.
The first time, I forgot the children, and Maria fetched them both along.
When she was all safe in the cave she fainted
Two or three weeks afterwards,when she was running for the holes, one morning, through a shell-shower, a bigshell burst near her, and covered her all over with dirt, and a piece ofthe iron carried away her game-bag of false hair from the back of her head.
Well, she stopped to get that game-bag before she shoved along again!
Was getting used to things already, you see
We all got so that we couldtell a good deal about shells; and after that we didn't always go undershelter if it was a light shower
Us men would loaf around and talk;and a man would say, 'There she goes!'
and name the kind of shell it was fromthe sound of it, and go on talking--if there wasn't any danger from it.
If a shell was bursting close over us, we stopped talking and stood still;--uncomfortable, yes, but it wasn't safe to move
When it let go, we wenton talking again, if nobody hurt--maybe saying, 'That was a ripper!'
Sometimes a man would gather up all the iron fragments and unburstedshells in his neighborhood, and pile them into a kind of monumentin his front yard--a ton of it, sometimes
No glass left;glass couldn't stand such a bombardment; it was all shivered out.
Windows of the houses vacant--looked like eye-holes in a skull.
WHOLE panes were as scarce as news.
We had church Sundays
Not many there, along at first; but by-and-byepretty good turnouts
I've seen service stop a minute, and everybodysit quiet--no voice heard, pretty funeral-like then--and all the moreso on account of the awful boom and crash going on outside and overhead;and pretty soon, when a body could be heard, service would go on again.
Organs and church-music mixed up with a bombardment is a powerfulqueer combination--along at first
Coming out of church, one morning,we had an accident--the only one that happened around me on a Sunday.
I was just having a hearty handshake with a friend I hadn't seen fora while, and saying, 'Drop into our cave to-night, after bombardment;we've got hold of a pint of prime wh--.'
Whiskey, I was going to say,you know, but a shell interrupted
A chunk of it cut the man's arm off,and left it dangling in my hand
And do you know the thing that isgoing to stick the longest in my memory, and outlast everything else,little and big, I reckon, is the mean thought I had then?
It was 'thewhiskey IS SAVED.'
And yet, don't you know, it was kind of excusable;because it was as scarce as diamonds, and we had only just that little;never had another taste during the siege.
'Sometimes the caves were desperately crowded, and always hot and close.
Sometimes a cave had twenty or twenty-five people packed into it;no turning-room for anybody; air so foul, sometimes, you couldn't have madea candle burn in it
A child was born in one of those caves one night,Think of that; why, it was like having it born in a trunk.
'Twice we had sixteen people in our cave; and a number of times wehad a dozen
Pretty suffocating in there
We always had eight;eight belonged there
Hunger and misery and sickness and frightand sorrow, and I don't know what all, got so loaded into them thatnone of them were ever rightly their old selves after the siege.
They all died but three of us within a couple of years.
One night a shell burst in front of the hole and caved it in andstopped it up
It was lively times, for a while, digging out.
Some of us came near smothering
After that we made two openings--ought to have thought of it at first.
No, we only got down to that the last day or two.
Of course it was good; anything is good when you are starving.
This man had kept a diary during--six weeks?
No, only the first six days.
The first day, eight close pages; the second, five; the third, one--loosely written; the fourth, three or four lines; a line or two the fifthand sixth days; seventh day, diary abandoned; life in terrific Vicksburghaving now become commonplace and matter of course.
The war history of Vicksburg has more about it to interest the generalreader than that of any other of the river-towns
It is full of variety,full of incident, full of the picturesque
Vicksburg held out longerthan any other important river-town, and saw warfare in all its phases,both land and water--the siege, the mine, the assault, the repulse,the bombardment, sickness, captivity, famine.
The most beautiful of all the national cemeteries is here.
The grounds are nobly situated; being very high and commanding a wideprospect of land and river
They are tastefully laid out in broad terraces,with winding roads and paths; and there is profuse adornment in the wayof semi-tropical shrubs and flowers,' and in one part is a piece of nativewild-wood, left just as it grew, and, therefore, perfect in its charm.
Everything about this cemetery suggests the hand of the national Government.
The Government's work is always conspicuous for excellence, solidity,thoroughness, neatness
The Government does its work well in the first place,and then takes care of it.
By winding-roads--which were often cut to so great a depth betweenperpendicular walls that they were mere roofless tunnels--we droveout a mile or two and visited the monument which stands upon the sceneof the surrender of Vicksburg to General Grant by General Pemberton.
Its metal will preserve it from the hackings and chippings whichso defaced its predecessor, which was of marble; but the brickfoundations are crumbling, and it will tumble down by-and-bye
Itoverlooks a picturesque region of wooded hills and ravines; and isnot unpicturesque itself, being well smothered in flowering weeds.
The battered remnant of the marble monument has been removed tothe National Cemetery.
On the road, a quarter of a mile townward, an aged colored man showed us,with pride, an unexploded bomb-shell which has lain in his yard since the dayit fell there during the siege.
Vicksburg is a town of substantial business streets and pleasant residences;it commands the commerce of the Yazoo and Sunflower Rivers; is pushingrailways in several directions, through rich agricultural regions,and has a promising future of prosperity and importance.
Apparently, nearly all the river towns, big and little, have madeup their minds that they must look mainly to railroads for wealthand upbuilding, henceforth
They are acting upon this idea.
The signs are, that the next twenty years will bring about somenoteworthy changes in the Valley, in the direction of increasedpopulation and wealth, and in the intellectual advancementand the liberalizing of opinion which go naturally with these.
And yet, if one may judge by the past, the river towns will manage to findand use a chance, here and there, to cripple and retard their progress.
They kept themselves back in the days of steamboating supremacy,by a system of wharfage-dues so stupidly graded as to prohibitwhat may be called small RETAIL traffic in freights and passengers.
Boats were charged such heavy wharfage that they could not affordto land for one or two passengers or a light lot of freight.
Instead of encouraging the bringing of trade to their doors, the townsdiligently and effectively discouraged it
They could have had manyboats and low rates; but their policy rendered few boats and highrates compulsory
It was a policy which extended--and extends--from New Orleans to St
We had a strong desire to make a trip up the Yazoo and the Sunflower--an interesting region at any time, but additionally interesting at this time,because up there the great inundation was still to be seen in force--but we were nearly sure to have to wait a day or more for a New Orleans boaton our return; so we were obliged to give up the project.
Here is a story which I picked up on board the boat that night.
I insert it in this place merely because it is a good story,not because it belongs here--for it doesn't
It was told by a passenger--a college professor--and was called to the surface in the courseof a general conversation which began with talk about horses,drifted into talk about astronomy, then into talk about the lynchingof the gamblers in Vicksburg half a century ago, then into talkabout dreams and superstitions; and ended, after midnight,in a dispute over free trade and protection.
The Professor's Yarn
IT was in the early days
I was not a college professor then.
I was a humble-minded young land-surveyor, with the world before me--to survey, in case anybody wanted it done
I had a contract to surveya route for a great mining-ditch in California, and I was on my way thither,by sea--a three or four weeks' voyage
There were a good many passengers,but I had very little to say to them; reading and dreaming were my passions,and I avoided conversation in order to indulge these appetites.
There were three professional gamblers on board--rough, repulsive fellows.
I never had any talk with them, yet I could not help seeing themwith some frequency, for they gambled in an upper-deck stateroom everyday and night, and in my promenades I often had glimpses of themthrough their door, which stood a little ajar to let out the surplustobacco smoke and profanity
They were an evil and hateful presence,but I had to put up with it, of course,
There was one other passenger who fell under my eye a good deal,for he seemed determined to be friendly with me, and I could not havegotten rid of him without running some chance of hurting his feelings,and I was far from wishing to do that
Besides, there was something engagingin his countrified simplicity and his beaming good-nature
The first timeI saw this Mr John Backus, I guessed, from his clothes and his looks,that he was a grazier or farmer from the backwoods of some western State--doubtless Ohio--and afterward when he dropped into his personal historyand I discovered that he WAS a cattle-raiser from interior Ohio,I was so pleased with my own penetration that I warmed toward him forverifying my instinct.
He got to dropping alongside me every day, after breakfast,to help me make my promenade; and so, in the course of time,his easy-working jaw had told me everything about his business,his prospects, his family, his relatives, his politics--in fact everything that concerned a Backus, living or dead.
And meantime I think he had managed to get out of me everythingI knew about my trade, my tribe, my purposes, my prospects,and myself
He was a gentle and persuasive genius, and this thingshowed it; for I was not given to talking about my matters.
I said something about triangulation, once; the stately wordpleased his ear; he inquired what it meant; I explained;after that he quietly and inoffensively ignored my name,and always called me Triangle.
What an enthusiast he was in cattle!
At the bare name of a bull or a cow,his eye would light and his eloquent tongue would turn itself loose
As longas I would walk and listen, he would walk and talk; he knew all breeds,he loved all breeds, he caressed them all with his affectionate tongue.
I tramped along in voiceless misery whilst the cattle question was up;when I could endure it no longer, I used to deftly insert a scientific topicinto the conversation; then my eye fired and his faded; my tongue fluttered,his stopped; life was a joy to me, and a sadness to him.
One day he said, a little hesitatingly, and with somewhat of diffidence--
'Triangle, would you mind coming down to my stateroom a minute,and have a little talk on a certain matter?'
I went with him at once
Arrived there, he put his head out, glanced upand down the saloon warily, then closed the door and locked it.
He sat down on the sofa, and he said--
'I'm a-going to make a little proposition to you, and if it strikesyou favorable, it'll be a middling good thing for both of us.
You ain't a-going out to Californy for fun, nuther am I--it's business, ain't that so?
Well, you can do me a good turn,and so can I you, if we see fit
I've raked and scraped and saved,a considerable many years, and I've got it all here.'
He unlocked an old hair trunk, tumbled a chaos of shabbyclothes aside, and drew a short stout bag into view for a moment,then buried it again and relocked the trunk
Dropping his voiceto a cautious low tone, he continued, 'She's all there--a roundten thousand dollars in yellow-boys; now this is my little idea:What I don't know about raising cattle, ain't worth knowing.
There's mints of money in it, in Californy
Well, I know,and you know, that all along a line that 's being surveyed,there 's little dabs of land that they call "gores," that fallto the surveyor free gratis for nothing
All you've got to do,on your side, is to survey in such a way that the "gores" will fallon good fat land, then you turn 'em over to me, I stock 'em with cattle,in rolls the cash, I plank out your share of the dollars regular,right along, and--'
I was sorry to wither his blooming enthusiasm, but it could not be helped.
It was pitiful to see his confusion and hear his awkwardand shamefaced apologies
I was as much distressed as he was--especially as he seemed so far from having suspectedthat there was anything improper in his proposition.
So I hastened to console him and lead him on to forget hismishap in a conversational orgy about cattle and butchery.
We were lying at Acapulco; and, as we went on deck, it happenedluckily that the crew were just beginning to hoist some beevesaboard in slings
Backus's melancholy vanished instantly,and with it the memory of his late mistake.
'Now only look at that!'
cried he; 'My goodness, Triangle, what WOULD they sayto it in OHIO
Wouldn't their eyes bug out, to see 'em handled like that?
--wouldn't they, though?'
All the passengers were on deck to look--even the gamblers--and Backus knew them all, and had afflicted them all with his pet topic.
As I moved away, I saw one of the gamblers approach and accost him;then another of them; then the third
I halted; waited; watched;the conversation continued between the four men; it grew earnest;Backus drew gradually away; the gamblers followed, and kept at his elbow.
I was uncomfortable
However, as they passed me presently, I heardBackus say, with a tone of persecuted annoyance--
'But it ain't any use, gentlemen; I tell you again, as I'vetold you a half a dozen times before, I warn't raised to it,and I ain't a-going to resk it.'
I felt relieved
'His level head will be his sufficient protection,'I said to myself.
During the fortnight's run from Acapulco to San Francisco Iseveral times saw the gamblers talking earnestly with Backus,and once I threw out a gentle warning to him
He chuckledcomfortably and said--
'Oh, yes!
they tag around after me considerable--want me to playa little, just for amusement, they say--but laws-a-me, if my folkshave told me once to look out for that sort of live-stock, they'vetold me a thousand times, I reckon.'
By-and-bye, in due course, we were approaching San Francisco.
It was an ugly black night, with a strong wind blowing, but therewas not much sea
I was on deck, alone
Toward ten I started below.
A figure issued from the gamblers' den, and disappeared in the darkness.
I experienced a shock, for I was sure it was Backus.
I flew down the companion-way, looked about for him, could notfind him, then returned to the deck just in time to catch a glimpseof him as he re-entered that confounded nest of rascality.
Had he yielded at last?
I feared it
What had he gone below for?
Possibly
I drew near the door, full of bodings.
It was a-crack, and I glanced in and saw a sight that mademe bitterly wish I had given my attention to saving my poorcattle-friend, instead of reading and dreaming my foolish time away.
He was gambling
Worse still, he was being plied with champagne,and was already showing some effect from it
He praised the 'cider,'as he called it, and said now that he had got a taste of ithe almost believed he would drink it if it was spirits, it wasso good and so ahead of anything he had ever run across before.
Surreptitious smiles, at this, passed from one rascal to another,and they filled all the glasses, and whilst Backus honestly drainedhis to the bottom they pretended to do the same, but threw the wineover their shoulders.
I could not bear the scene, so I wandered forward and triedto interest myself in the sea and the voices of the wind.
But no, my uneasy spirit kept dragging me back atquarter-hour intervals; and always I saw Backus drinking his wine--fairly and squarely, and the others throwing theirs away.
It was the painfullest night I ever spent.
The only hope I had was that we might reach our anchoragewith speed--that would break up the game
I helped the shipalong all I could with my prayers
At last we went boomingthrough the Golden Gate, and my pulses leaped for joy.
I hurried back to that door and glanced in
Alas, there wassmall room for hope--Backus's eyes were heavy and bloodshot,his sweaty face was crimson, his speech maudlin and thick,his body sawed drunkenly about with the weaving motion of the ship.
He drained another glass to the dregs, whilst the cardswere being dealt.
He took his hand, glanced at it, and his dull eyes lit up for a moment.
The gamblers observed it, and showed their gratification byhardly perceptible signs.
One villain--named Hank Wiley--discarded one card, the others three each.
The betting began
Heretofore the bets had been trifling--a dollar or two; but Backus started off with an eagle now,Wiley hesitated a moment, then 'saw it' and 'went ten dollars better.'
The other two threw up their hands.
Backus went twenty better
'I see that, and go you a hundred better!'
then smiled and reachedfor the money.
Let it alone,' said Backus, with drunken gravity.
What!
you mean to say you're going to cover it?'
'Cover it?
Well, I reckon I am--and lay another hundred on topof it, too.'
He reached down inside his overcoat and produced the required sum.
'Oh, that's your little game, is it?
'Five hundred better.'
said the foolish bull-driver,and pulled out the amount and showered it on the pile.
The three conspirators hardly tried to conceal their exultation.
All diplomacy and pretense were dropped now, and the sharp exclamationscame thick and fast, and the yellow pyramid grew higher and higher.
At last ten thousand dollars lay in view
Wiley cast a bag of coin onthe table, and said with mocking gentleness--
'Five thousand dollars better, my friend from the rural districts--what do you say NOW?'
and the long trip was ended.
Well--well, it is a sad world
One of the three gamblers was Backus's 'pal.'
It was he that dealt the fateful hands
According to an understanding withthe two victims, he was to have given Backus four queens, but alas, he didn't.
A week later, I stumbled upon Backus--arrayed in the height of fashion--in Montgomery Street
He said, cheerily, as we were parting--
'Ah, by-the-way, you needn't mind about those gores
I don't reallyknow anything about cattle, except what I was able to pick upin a week's apprenticeship over in Jersey just before we sailed.
My cattle-culture and cattle-enthusiasm have served their turn--I shan't need them any more.'
Next day we reluctantly parted from the 'Gold Dust' and her officers,hoping to see that boat and all those officers again, some day.
A thing which the fates were to render tragically impossible!
Forty-seven persons were scalded and seventeen are missing.
The boat was landed in the eddy just above the town,and through the exertions of the citizens the cabin passengers,officers, and part of the crew and deck passengers weretaken ashore and removed to the hotels and residences.
Twenty-four of the injured were lying in Holcomb's dry-goodsstore at one time, where they received every attention beforebeing removed to more comfortable places.'
A list of the names followed, whereby it appeared that of the seventeen dead,one was the barkeeper; and among the forty-seven wounded, were the captain,chief mate, second mate, and second and third clerks; also Mr
Gray,pilot, and several members of the crew.
In answer to a private telegram, we learned that none of these wasseverely hurt, except Mr
Letters received afterward confirmedthis news, and said that Mr
Gray was improving and would get well.
Later letters spoke less hopefully of his case; and finally came oneannouncing his death
A good man, a most companionable and manly man,and worthy of a kindlier fate.
The House Beautiful
WE took passage in a Cincinnati boat for New Orleans; or on a Cincinnati boat--either is correct; the former is the eastern form of putting it,the latter the western.
Dickens declined to agree that the Mississippi steamboatswere 'magnificent,' or that they were 'floating palaces,'--terms which had always been applied to them; terms which did notover-express the admiration with which the people viewed them.
Dickens's position was unassailable, possibly; the people'sposition was certainly unassailable
Dickens wascomparing these boats with the crown jewels; or with the Taj,or with the Matterhorn; or with some other priceless or wonderfulthing which he had seen, they were not magnificent--he was right.
The people compared them with what they had seen; and, thus measured,thus judged, the boats were magnificent--the term was the correct one,it was not at all too strong
The steamboats were finer than anything on shore.
Compared with superior dwelling-houses and first-class hotels inthe Valley, they were indubitably magnificent, they were 'palaces.'
To a few people living in New Orleans and St
Louis, they werenot magnificent, perhaps; not palaces; but to the great majorityof those populations, and to the entire populations spread overboth banks between Baton Rouge and St
Louis, they were palaces;they tallied with the citizen's dream of what magnificence was,and satisfied it.
Every town and village along that vast stretch of doubleriver-frontage had a best dwelling, finest dwelling, mansion,--the home of its wealthiest and most conspicuous citizen.
It is easy to describe it:  large grassy yard, with palingfence painted white--in fair repair; brick walk from gateto door; big, square, two-story 'frame' house, painted whiteand porticoed like a Grecian temple--with this difference,that the imposing fluted columns and Corinthian capitalswere a pathetic sham, being made of white pine, and painted;iron knocker; brass door knob--discolored, for lackof polishing
Polished air-tight stove (new and deadly invention), withpipe passing through a board which closes up the discardedgood old fireplace
On each end of the wooden mantel,over the fireplace, a large basket of peaches and other fruits,natural size, all done in plaster, rudely, or in wax,and painted to resemble the originals--which they don't
Overmiddle of mantel, engraving--Washington Crossing the Delaware;on the wall by the door, copy of it done in thunder-and-lightningcrewels by one of the young ladies--work of art which wouldhave made Washington hesitate about crossing, if he couldhave foreseen what advantage was going to be taken of it.
Tilted pensively against the piano, a guitar--guitar capableof playing the Spanish Fandango by itself, if you give it a start.
Frantic work of art on the wall--pious motto, done on the premises,sometimes in colored yarns, sometimes in faded grasses:progenitor of the 'God Bless Our Home' of modern commerce.
Framed in black moldings on the wall, other works of arts,conceived and committed on the premises, by the young ladies;being grim black-and-white crayons; landscapes, mostly:lake, solitary sail-boat, petrified clouds, pre-geological treeson shore, anthracite precipice; name of criminal conspicuousin the corner
Steel-plates, Trumbull'sBattle of Bunker Hill, and the Sally from Gibraltar.
Opposite, in gilt frame, grandpa and grandma, at thirty andtwenty-two, stiff, old-fashioned, high-collared, puff-sleeved,glaring pallidly out from a background of solid Egyptian night.
Under a glass French clock dome, large bouquet of stiffflowers done in corpsy-white wax
Pyramidal what-notin the corner, the shelves occupied chiefly with bric-a-bracof the period, disposed with an eye to best effect:shell, with the Lord's Prayer carved on it; another shell--of the long-oval sort, narrow, straight orifice, three inches long,running from end to end--portrait of Washington carved on it;not well done; the shell had Washington's mouth, originally--artist should have built to that
These two are memorials ofthe long-ago bridal trip to New Orleans and the French Market.
Horse-hair chairs, horse-hair sofa which keeps sliding fromunder you
Window shades, of oil stuff, with milk-maidsand ruined castles stenciled on them in fierce colors.
Lambrequins dependent from gaudy boxings of beaten tin, gilded.
Bedrooms with rag carpets; bedsteads of the 'corded' sort,with a sag in the middle, the cords needing tightening;snuffy feather-bed--not aired often enough; cane-seat chairs,splint-bottomed rocker; looking-glass on wall, school-slate size,veneered frame; inherited bureau; wash-bowl and pitcher, possibly--but not certainly; brass candlestick, tallow candle, snuffers.
Nothing else in the room
Not a bathroom in the house;and no visitor likely to come along who has ever seenone.
That was the residence of the principal citizen, all the way fromthe suburbs of New Orleans to the edge of St
When he steppedaboard a big fine steamboat, he entered a new and marvelous world:chimney-tops cut to counterfeit a spraying crown of plumes--and maybe painted red; pilot-house, hurricane deck, boiler-deck guards,all garnished with white wooden filigree work of fanciful patterns;gilt acorns topping the derricks; gilt deer-horns over the big bell;gaudy symbolical picture on the paddle-box, possibly; big roomyboiler-deck, painted blue, and furnished with Windsor armchairs;inside, a far-receding snow-white 'cabin;' porcelain knob and oil-pictureon every stateroom door; curving patterns of filigree-work touchedup with gilding, stretching overhead all down the converging vista;big chandeliers every little way, each an April shower ofglittering glass-drops; lovely rainbow-light falling everywherefrom the colored glazing of the skylights; the whole a long-drawn,resplendent tunnel, a bewildering and soul-satisfying spectacle!
In the ladies' cabin a pink and white Wilton carpet, as soft as mush,and glorified with a ravishing pattern of gigantic flowers.
Then the Bridal Chamber--the animal that invented that idea was stillalive and unhanged, at that day--Bridal Chamber whose pretentiousflummery was necessarily overawing to the now tottering intellectof that hosannahing citizen
Every state-room had its coupleof cozy clean bunks, and perhaps a looking-glass and a snug closet;and sometimes there was even a washbowl and pitcher, and partof a towel which could be told from mosquito netting by an expert--though generally these things were absent, and the shirt-sleevedpassengers cleansed themselves at a long row of stationary bowlsin the barber shop, where were also public towels, public combs,and public soap.
Take the steamboat which I have just described, and you have herin her highest and finest, and most pleasing, and comfortable,and satisfactory estate
Now cake her over with a layerof ancient and obdurate dirt, and you have the Cincinnatisteamer awhile ago referred to
Not all over--only inside;for she was ably officered in all departments except the steward's.
But wash that boat and repaint her, and she would be about thecounterpart of the most complimented boat of the old flush times:for the steamboat architecture of the West has undergone no change;neither has steamboat furniture and ornamentation undergone any.
Manufactures and Miscreants
Where the river, in the Vicksburg region, used to be corkscrewed,it is now comparatively straight--made so by cut-off;a former distance of seventy miles is reduced to thirty-five
Itis a change which threw Vicksburg's neighbor, Delta, Louisiana,out into the country and ended its career as a river town.
Its whole river-frontage is now occupied by a vast sand-bar,thickly covered with young trees--a growth which will magnifyitself into a dense forest by-and-bye, and completely hidethe exiled town.
In due time we passed Grand Gulf and Rodney, of war fame, and reached Natchez,the last of the beautiful hill-cities--for Baton Rouge, yet to come,is not on a hill, but only on high ground
Famous Natchez-under-the-hillhas not changed notably in twenty years; in outward aspect--judging by the descriptions of the ancient procession of foreign tourists--it has not changed in sixty; for it is still small, straggling, and shabby.
It had a desperate reputation, morally, in the old keel-boating andearly steamboating times--plenty of drinking, carousing, fisticuffing,and killing there, among the riff-raff of the river, in those days.
But Natchez-on-top-of-the-hill is attractive; has always been attractive.
The contrast that its bright green hill forms with the dismal line of blackforest that stretches on every side, the abundant growth of the pawpaw,palmetto and orange, the copious variety of sweet-scented flowersthat flourish there, all make it appear like an oasis in the desert.
Natchez is the furthest point to the north at which orangesripen in the open air, or endure the winter without shelter.
With the exception of this sweet spot, I thought all the little townsand villages we passed wretched-looking in the extreme.'
Natchez, like her near and far river neighbors, has railways now,and is adding to them--pushing them hither and thither into allrich outlying regions that are naturally tributary to her.
And like Vicksburg and New Orleans, she has her ice-factory:she makes thirty tons of ice a day
In Vicksburg and Natchez,in my time, ice was jewelry; none but the rich could wear it.
But anybody and everybody can have it now
I visited one ofthe ice-factories in New Orleans, to see what the polar regionsmight look like when lugged into the edge of the tropics.
But there was nothing striking in the aspect of the place.
It was merely a spacious house, with some innocent steam machineryin one end of it and some big porcelain pipes running here and there.
No, not porcelain--they merely seemed to be; they were iron,but the ammonia which was being breathed through them had coatedthem to the thickness of your hand with solid milk-white ice.
It ought to have melted; for one did not require winter clothingin that atmosphere:  but it did not melt; the inside of the pipewas too cold.
Sunk into the floor were numberless tin boxes, a foot square and twofeet long, and open at the top end
These were full of clear water;and around each box, salt and other proper stuff was packed; also, the ammoniagases were applied to the water in some way which will always remaina secret to me, because I was not able to understand the process.
While the water in the boxes gradually froze, men gave it a stir ortwo with a stick occasionally--to liberate the air-bubbles, I think.
Other men were continually lifting out boxes whose contents had becomehard frozen
They gave the box a single dip into a vat of boiling water,to melt the block of ice free from its tin coffin, then they shotthe block out upon a platform car, and it was ready for market.
These big blocks were hard, solid, and crystal-clear
In certain of them,big bouquets of fresh and brilliant tropical flowers had been frozen-in;in others, beautiful silken-clad French dolls, and other pretty objects.
These blocks were to be set on end in a platter, in the center ofdinner-tables, to cool the tropical air; and also to be ornamental,for the flowers and things imprisoned in them could be seen as throughplate glass
I was told that this factory could retail its ice, by wagon,throughout New Orleans, in the humblest dwelling-house quantities,at six or seven dollars a ton, and make a sufficient profit.
This being the case, there is business for ice-factories in the North;for we get ice on no such terms there, if one take less than three hundredand fifty pounds at a delivery.
The Rosalie Yarn Mill, of Natchez, has a capacity of 6,000 spindles and160 looms, and employs 100 hands
The Natchez Cotton Mills Company beganoperations four years ago in a two-story building of 50 x 190 feet, with 4,000spindles and 128 looms; capital $105,000, all subscribed in the town.
Two years later, the same stockholders increased their capital to $225,000;added a third story to the mill, increased its length to 317 feet;added machinery to increase the capacity to 10,300 spindles and 304 looms.
The company now employ 250 operatives, many of whom are citizens of Natchez.'
The changes in the Mississippi River are great and strange,yet were to be expected; but I was not expecting to live to seeNatchez and these other river towns become manufacturingstrongholds and railway centers.
Speaking of manufactures reminds me of a talk upon that topicwhich I heard--which I overheard--on board the Cincinnati boat.
I awoke out of a fretted sleep, with a dull confusion of voices in my ears.
I listened--two men were talking; subject, apparently, the great inundation.
I looked out through the open transom
The two men were eatinga late breakfast; sitting opposite each other; nobody else around.
They closed up the inundation with a few words--having used it,evidently, as a mere ice-breaker and acquaintanceship-breeder--then they dropped into business
It soon transpired that theywere drummers--one belonging in Cincinnati, the other in New Orleans.
Brisk men, energetic of movement and speech; the dollar their god,how to get it their religion.
'Now as to this article,' said Cincinnati, slashing into the ostensiblebutter and holding forward a slab of it on his knife-blade,'it's from our house; look at it--smell of it--taste it.
Put any test on it you want to
Take your own time--no hurry--make it thorough
There now--what do you say?
butter, ain't it.
Not by a thundering sight--it's oleomargarine!
Yes, sir, that's whatit is--oleomargarine
You can't tell it from butter; by George,an EXPERT can't
It's from our house
We supply most of the boatsin the West; there's hardly a pound of butter on one of them.
We are crawling right along--JUMPING right along is the word.
We are going to have that entire trade
Yes, and the hotel trade, too.
You are going to see the day, pretty soon, when you can't findan ounce of butter to bless yourself with, in any hotel inthe Mississippi and Ohio Valleys, outside of the biggest cities.
Why, we are turning out oleomargarine NOW by the thousands of tons.
And we can sell it so dirt-cheap that the whole country hasGOT to take it--can't get around it you see
Butter don'tstand any show--there ain't any chance for competition.
Butter's had its DAY--and from this out, butter goes to the wall.
There's more money in oleomargarine than--why, you can't
imagine the business we do
I've stopped in every town fromCincinnati to Natchez; and I've sent home big orders from everyone of them.'
And so-forth and so-on, for ten minutes longer, in the same fervid strain.
Then New Orleans piped up and said--
Yes, it's a first-rate imitation, that's a certainty;but it ain't the only one around that's first-rate
For instance,they make olive-oil out of cotton-seed oil, nowadays, so that youcan't tell them apart.'
'Yes, that's so,' responded Cincinnati, 'and it was a tip-topbusiness for a while
They sent it over and brought it back fromFrance and Italy, with the United States custom-house mark on itto indorse it for genuine, and there was no end of cash in it;but France and Italy broke up the game--of course they naturally would.
Cracked on such a rattling impost that cotton-seed olive-oil couldn'tstand the raise; had to hang up and quit.'
'Oh, it DID, did it?
You wait here a minute.'
Goes to his state-room, brings back a couple of long bottles,and takes out the corks--says:
'There now, smell them, taste them, examine the bottles, inspect the labels.
One of 'm's from Europe, the other's never been out of this country.
One's European olive-oil, the other's American cotton-seed olive-oil.
Tell 'm apart?
'Course you can't
People that want to,can go to the expense and trouble of shipping their oils to Europe and back--it's their privilege; but our firm knows a trick worth six of that.
We turn out the whole thing--clean from the word go--in our factoryin New Orleans:  labels, bottles, oil, everything
Well, no, not labels:been buying them abroad--get them dirt-cheap there
You see,there's just one little wee speck, essence, or whatever it is,in a gallon of cotton-seed oil, that give it a smell, or a flavor,or something--get that out, and you're all right--perfectly easy thento turn the oil into any kind of oil you want to, and there ain't anybodythat can detect the true from the false
Well, we know how to getthat one little particle out--and we're the only firm that does.
And we turn out an olive-oil that is just simply perfect--undetectable!
We are doing a ripping trade, too--as I could easily show you by myorder-book for this trip
Maybe you'll butter everybody's bread pretty soon,but we'll cotton-seed his salad for him from the Gulf to Canada, and that'sa dead-certain thing.'
Cincinnati glowed and flashed with admiration.
The two scoundrels exchanged business-cards, and rose.
As they left the table, Cincinnati said--
'But you have to have custom-house marks, don't you?
How do you manage that?'
I did not catch the answer.
We passed Port Hudson, scene of two of the most terrific episodes of the war--the night-battle there between Farragut's fleet and the Confederateland batteries, April 14th, 1863; and the memorable land battle,two months later, which lasted eight hours--eight hours of exceptionallyfierce and stubborn fighting--and ended, finally, in the repulseof the Union forces with great slaughter.
Castles and Culture
BATON ROUGE was clothed in flowers, like a bride--no, much more so;like a greenhouse
For we were in the absolute South now--no modifications, no compromises, no half-way measures.
The magnolia-trees in the Capitol grounds were lovely and fragrant,with their dense rich foliage and huge snow-ball blossoms.
The scent of the flower is very sweet, but you want distance on it,because it is so powerful
They are not good bedroom blossoms--they might suffocate one in his sleep
We were certainly in the Southat last; for here the sugar region begins, and the plantations--vast green levels, with sugar-mill and negro quarters clustered togetherin the middle distance--were in view
And there was a tropical sunoverhead and a tropical swelter in the air.
And at this point, also, begins the pilot's paradise:a wide river hence to New Orleans, abundance of water from shoreto shore, and no bars, snags, sawyers, or wrecks in his road.
Sir Walter Scott is probably responsible for the Capitol building;for it is not conceivable that this little sham castle wouldever have been built if he had not run the people mad, a coupleof generations ago, with his medieval romances
The South hasnot yet recovered from the debilitating influence of his books.
Admiration of his fantastic heroes and their grotesque'chivalry' doings and romantic juvenilities still survives here,in an atmosphere in which is already perceptible the wholesomeand practical nineteenth-century smell of cotton-factoriesand locomotives; and traces of its inflated language and otherwindy humbuggeries survive along with it
It is pathetic enough,that a whitewashed castle, with turrets and things--materials allungenuine within and without, pretending to be what they are not--should ever have been built in this otherwise honorable place;but it is much more pathetic to see this architectural falsehoodundergoing restoration and perpetuation in our day, when itwould have been so easy to let dynamite finish what a charitablefire began, and then devote this restoration-money to the buildingof something genuine.
Baton Rouge has no patent on imitation castles, however, and no monopolyof them
Here is a picture from the advertisement of the 'Female Institute'of Columbia; Tennessee
The following remark is from the same advertisement--
'The Institute building has long been famed as a model of strikingand beautiful architecture
Visitors are charmed with its resemblanceto the old castles of song and story, with its towers, turreted walls,and ivy-mantled porches.'
Keeping school in a castle is a romantic thing; as romantic as keepinghotel in a castle.
By itself the imitation castle is doubtless harmless, and well enough;but as a symbol and breeder and sustainer of maudlin Middle-Age romanticismhere in the midst of the plainest and sturdiest and infinitely greatestand worthiest of all the centuries the world has seen, it is necessarilya hurtful thing and a mistake.
Here is an extract from the prospectus of a Kentucky 'Female College.'
Female college sounds well enough; but since the phrasing it inthat unjustifiable way was done purely in the interest of brevity,it seems to me that she-college would have been still better--because shorter, and means the same thing:  that is, if either phrasemeans anything at all--
'The president is southern by birth, by rearing, by education,and by sentiment; the teachers are all southern in sentiment,and with the exception of those born in Europe were born and raisedin the south
This was at the fair grounds, and O'Connor told Mabrythat it was not the place to settle their difficulties.
Mabry then told O'Connor he should not live.
It seems that Mabry was armed and O'Connor was not.
The cause of the difficulty was an old feud about the transferof some property from Mabry to O'Connor
Later in the afternoonMabry sent word to O'Connor that he would kill him on sight.
This morning Major O'Connor was standing in the door ofthe Mechanics' National Bank, of which he was president.
General Mabry and another gentleman walked down Gay Street onthe opposite side from the bank
O'Connor stepped into the bank,got a shot gun, took deliberate aim at General Mabry and fired.
Mabry fell dead, being shot in the left side
The instant Mabry shot, O'Connor turned and fired,the load taking effect in young Mabry's right breast and side.
Mabry fell pierced with twenty buckshot, and almost instantlyO'Connor fell dead without a struggle
Mabry tried to rise,but fell back dead
The whole tragedy occurred withintwo minutes, and neither of the three spoke after he was shot.
General Mabry had about thirty buckshot in his body.
A bystander was painfully wounded in the thigh with a buckshot,and another was wounded in the arm
Four other men had theirclothing pierced by buckshot
The affair caused great excitement,and Gay Street was thronged with thousands of people.
General Mabry and his son Joe were acquitted only a fewdays ago of the murder of Moses Lusby and Don Lusby,father and son, whom they killed a few weeks ago.
Will Mabry was killed by Don Lusby last Christmas
Major ThomasO'Connor was President of the Mechanics' National Bank here,and was the wealthiest man in the State.
One day last month, Professor Sharpe, of the Somerville,Tenn.
'Female College, 'a quiet and gentlemanly man,' was told thathis brother-in-law, a Captain Burton, had threatened to kill him.
Burton, t seems, had already killed one man and driven his knifeinto another
The Professor armed himself with a double-barreledshot gun, started out in search of his brother-in-law, foundhim playing billiards in a saloon, and blew his brains out.
The 'Memphis Avalanche' reports that the Professor's course metwith pretty general approval in the community; knowing that the lawwas powerless, in the actual condition of public sentiment,to protect him, he protected himself.
About the same time, two young men in North Carolina quarreledabout a girl, and 'hostile messages' were exchanged.
Friends tried to reconcile them, but had their labor for their pains.
On the 24th the young men met in the public highway.
One of them had a heavy club in his hand, the other an ax.
The man with the club fought desperately for his life, but itwas a hopeless fight from the first
A well-directed blowsent his club whirling out of his grasp, and the next momenthe was a dead man.
About the same time, two 'highly connected' young Virginians,clerks in a hardware store at Charlottesville, while 'skylarking,'came to blows
Peter Dick threw pepper in Charles Roads's eyes;Roads demanded an apology; Dick refused to give it, and itwas agreed that a duel was inevitable, but a difficulty arose;the parties had no pistols, and it was too late at nightto procure them
One of them suggested that butcher-kniveswould answer the purpose, and the other accepted the suggestion;the result was that Roads fell to the floor with a gashin his abdomen that may or may not prove fatal.
If Dick has been arrested, the news has not reached us.
He 'expressed deep regret,' and we are told by a Stauntoncorrespondent of the PHILADELPHIA PRESS that 'every effort hasbeen made to hush the matter up.'
the man that can blow so complacent a blast as that,probably blows it from a castle.
From Baton Rouge to New Orleans, the great sugar plantations borderboth sides of the river all the way, and stretch their league-widelevels back to the dim forest-walls of bearded cypress in the rear.
Shores lonely no longer
Plenty of dwellings all the way,on both banks--standing so close together, for long distances,that the broad river lying between the two rows, becomes a sortof spacious street
A most home-like and happy-looking region.
And now and then you see a pillared and porticoed great manor-house,embowered in trees
'The district of country which lies adjacent to the Mississippi,in the lower parts of Louisiana, is everywhere thicklypeopled by sugar planters, whose showy houses, gay piazzas,trig gardens, and numerous slave-villages, all clean and neat,gave an exceedingly thriving air to the river scenery.
All the procession paint the attractive picture in the same way.
The descriptions of fifty years ago do not need to have a wordchanged in order to exactly describe the same region as itappears to-day--except as to the 'trigness' of the houses.
The whitewash is gone from the negro cabins now; and many,possibly most, of the big mansions, once so shining white,have worn out their paint and have a decayed, neglected look.
It is the blight of the war
Twenty-one years ago everything wastrim and trig and bright along the 'coast,' just as it had beenin 1827, as described by those tourists.
Unfortunate tourists!
People humbugged them with stupid and silly lies,and then laughed at them for believing and printing the same.
They told Mrs
Trollope that the alligators--or crocodiles, as she calls them--were terrible creatures; and backed up the statement with a blood-curdlingaccount of how one of these slandered reptiles crept into a squattercabin one night, and ate up a woman and five children
The woman,by herself, would have satisfied any ordinarily-impossible alligator;but no, these liars must make him gorge the five children besides.
One would not imagine that jokers of this robust breed would be sensitive--but they were
It is difficult, at this day, to understand,and impossible to justify, the reception which the book of the grave,honest, intelligent, gentle, manly, charitable, well-meaning Capt
THE approaches to New Orleans were familiar; general aspects were unchanged.
When one goes flying through London along a railway propped in the air ontall arches, he may inspect miles of upper bedrooms through the open windows,but the lower half of the houses is under his level and out of sight.
Similarly, in high-river stage, in the New Orleans region, the water is upto the top of the enclosing levee-rim, the flat country behind it lies low--representing the bottom of a dish--and as the boat swims along, high onthe flood, one looks down upon the houses and into the upper windows.
There is nothing but that frail breastwork of earth between the peopleand destruction.
The old brick salt-warehouses clustered at the upper end of the citylooked as they had always looked; warehouses which had had a kindof Aladdin's lamp experience, however, since I had seen them;for when the war broke out the proprietor went to bed one nightleaving them packed with thousands of sacks of vulgar salt,worth a couple of dollars a sack, and got up in the morning and foundhis mountain of salt turned into a mountain of gold, so to speak,so suddenly and to so dizzy a height had the war news sent upthe price of the article.
The vast reach of plank wharves remained unchanged, and there wereas many ships as ever:  but the long array of steamboats had vanished;not altogether, of course, but not much of it was left.
The city itself had not changed--to the eye
It had greatly increasedin spread and population, but the look of the town was not altered.
The dust, waste-paper-littered, was still deep in the streets;the deep, trough-like gutters alongside the curbstones were still halffull of reposeful water with a dusty surface; the sidewalks were still--in the sugar and bacon region--encumbered by casks and barrelsand hogsheads; the great blocks of austerely plain commercial houseswere as dusty-looking as ever.
Canal Street was finer, and more attractive and stirring than formerly,with its drifting crowds of people, its several processions of hurryingstreet-cars, and--toward evening--its broad second-story verandas crowdedwith gentlemen and ladies clothed according to the latest mode.
Not that there is any 'architecture' in Canal Street:  to speakin broad, general terms, there is no architecture in New Orleans,except in the cemeteries
It seems a strange thing to say of a wealthy,far-seeing, and energetic city of a quarter of a million inhabitants,but it is true
Custom-house--costly enough,genuine enough, but as a decoration it is inferior to a gasometer.
It looks like a state prison
But it was built before the war.
Architecture in America may be said to have been born since the war.
New Orleans, I believe, has had the good luck--and in a sense the bad luck--to have had no great fire in late years
It must be so
If the oppositehad been the case, I think one would be able to tell the 'burnt district'by the radical improvement in its architecture over the old forms.
One can do this in Boston and Chicago
The 'burnt district' of Bostonwas commonplace before the fire; but now there is no commercial districtin any city in the world that can surpass it--or perhaps even rival it--in beauty, elegance, and tastefulness.
However, New Orleans has begun--just this moment, as one may say.
When completed, the new Cotton Exchange will be a stately andbeautiful building; massive, substantial, full of architectural graces;no shams or false pretenses or uglinesses about it anywhere.
To the city, it will be worth many times its cost, for it willbreed its species
What has been lacking hitherto, was a modelto build toward; something to educate eye and taste; a SUGGESTER,so to speak.
The city is well outfitted with progressive men--thinking, sagacious,long-headed men
The contrast between the spirit of the city andthe city's architecture is like the contrast between waking and sleep.
Apparently there is a 'boom' in everything but that one dead feature.
The water in the gutters used to be stagnant and slimy, and a potentdisease-breeder; but the gutters are flushed now, two or three times a day,by powerful machinery; in many of the gutters the water never stands still,but has a steady current
Other sanitary improvements have been made;and with such effect that New Orleans claims to be (during the longintervals between the occasional yellow-fever assaults) one of thehealthiest cities in the Union
There's plenty of ice now for everybody,manufactured in the town
It is a driving place commercially, and hasa great river, ocean, and railway business
At the date of our visit,it was the best lighted city in the Union, electrically speaking.
The New Orleans electric lights were more numerous than those of New York,and very much better
One had this modified noonday not only in Canaland some neighboring chief streets, but all along a stretch of fivemiles of river frontage
There are good clubs in the city now--several of them but recently organized--and inviting modern-style pleasureresorts at West End and Spanish Fort
The telephone is everywhere.
One of the most notable advances is in journalism
The newspapers,as I remember them, were not a striking feature
Now they are.
Money is spent upon them with a free hand
They get the news, let it costwhat it may
The editorial work is not hack-grinding, but literature.
As an example of New Orleans journalistic achievement, it may bementioned that the 'Times-Democrat' of August 26, 1882, contained areport of the year's business of the towns of the Mississippi Valley,from New Orleans all the way to St
Paul--two thousand miles.
That issue of the paper consisted of forty pages; seven columns to the page;two hundred and eighty columns in all; fifteen hundred words to the column;an aggregate of four hundred and twenty thousand words
That is to say,not much short of three times as many words as there are in this book.
One may with sorrow contrast this with the architecture of New Orleans.
I have been speaking of public architecture only
The domesticarticle in New Orleans is reproachless, notwithstanding itremains as it always was
All the dwellings are of wood--in the American part of the town, I mean--and all have acomfortable look
Those in the wealthy quarter are spacious;painted snow-white usually, and generally have wide verandas,or double-verandas, supported by ornamental columns.
These mansions stand in the center of large grounds,and rise, garlanded with roses, out of the midst of swellingmasses of shining green foliage and many-colored blossoms.
No houses could well be in better harmony with their surroundings,or more pleasing to the eye, or more home-like and comfortable-looking.
One even becomes reconciled to the cistern presently; this is a mighty cask,painted green, and sometimes a couple of stories high, which is proppedagainst the house-corner on stilts
There is a mansion-and-brewerysuggestion about the combination which seems very incongruous at first.
THEY bury their dead in vaults, above the ground
These vaultshave a resemblance to houses--sometimes to temples; are builtof marble, generally; are architecturally graceful and shapely;they face the walks and driveways of the cemetery; and when onemoves through the midst of a thousand or so of them and sees theirwhite roofs and gables stretching into the distance on every hand,the phrase 'city of the dead' has all at once a meaning to him.
Many of the cemeteries are beautiful, and are kept in perfect order.
When one goes from the levee or the business streets near it,to a cemetery, he observes to himself that if those people down therewould live as neatly while they are alive as they do after they are dead,they would find many advantages in it; and besides, their quarter wouldbe the wonder and admiration of the business world
Fresh flowers,in vases of water, are to be seen at the portals of many of the vaults:placed there by the pious hands of bereaved parents and children,husbands and wives, and renewed daily
A milder form of sorrow findsits inexpensive and lasting remembrancer in the coarse and uglybut indestructible 'immortelle'--which is a wreath or cross or somesuch emblem, made of rosettes of black linen, with sometimes a yellowrosette at the conjunction of the cross's bars--kind of sorrowfulbreast-pin, so to say
The immortelle requires no attention:you just hang it up, and there you are; just leave it alone, it will takecare of your grief for you, and keep it in mind better than you can;stands weather first-rate, and lasts like boiler-iron.
On sunny days, pretty little chameleons--gracefullest of legged reptiles--creep along the marble fronts of the vaults, and catch flies
Their changesof color--as to variety--are not up to the creature's reputation.
They change color when a person comes along and hangs up an immortelle;but that is nothing:  any right-feeling reptile would do that.
I will gradually drop this subject of graveyards
I have beentrying all I could to get down to the sentimental part of it,but I cannot accomplish it
I think there is no genuinelysentimental part to it
It is all grotesque, ghastly, horrible.
Graveyards may have been justifiable in the bygone ages,when nobody knew that for every dead body put into the ground,to glut the earth and the plant-roots, and the air withdisease-germs, five or fifty, or maybe a hundred persons must diebefore their proper time; but they are hardly justifiable now,when even the children know that a dead saint enters upona century-long career of assassination the moment the earthcloses over his corpse
It is a grim sort of a thought.
The relics of St
Anne, up in Canada, have now, after nineteenhundred years, gone to curing the sick by the dozen.
But it is merest matter-of-course that these same relics,within a generation after St
Anne's death and burial,MADE several thousand people sick
Anne is somewhat slow pay, for a Saint, it is true;but better a debt paid after nineteen hundred years,and outlawed by the statute of limitations, than not paid at all;and most of the knights of the halo do not pay at all.
Where you find one that pays--like St
Anne--you finda hundred and fifty that take the benefit of the statute.
And none of them pay any more than the principal of what they owe--they pay none of the interest either simple or compound.
A Saint can never QUITE return the principal, however;for his dead body KILLS people, whereas his relics HEAL only--they never restore the dead to life
That part of the account isalways left unsettled.
Julius Le Moyne, after fifty years of medical practice, wrote:"The inhumation of human bodies, dead from infectious diseases,results in constantly loading the atmosphere, and polluting the waters,with not only the germs that rise from simply putrefaction, but also withthe SPECIFIC germs of the diseases from which death resulted.
'The gases (from buried corpses) will rise to the surfacethrough eight or ten feet of gravel, just as coal-gas will do,and there is practically no limit to their power of escape.
'During the epidemic in New Orleans in 1853, Dr
Bartonreported that in the Fourth District the mortality was four hundredand fifty-two per thousand--more than double that of any other.
In this district were three large cemeteries, in which duringthe previous year more than three thousand bodies had been buried.
In other districts the proximity of cemeteries seemed toaggravate the disease.
Purdy made some striking comparisons to show what a burdenis laid upon society by the burial of the dead:--
'One and one-fourth times more money is expended annually in funerals inthe United States than the Government expends for public-school purposes.
Funerals cost this country in 1880 enough money to pay the liabilitiesof all the commercial failures in the United States during the same year,and give each bankrupt a capital of $8,630 with which to resume business.
Funerals cost annually more money than the value of the combinedgold and silver yield of the United States in the year 1880!
These figures do not include the sums invested in burial-groundsand expended in tombs and monuments, nor the loss from depreciationof property in the vicinity of cemeteries.'
He never earns above four hundred dollars in a year,and as he has a wife and several young children, the closest scrimpingis necessary to get him through to the end of the twelve months debtless.
To such a man a funeral is a colossal financial disaster
While I waswriting one of the preceding chapters, this man lost a little child.
He walked the town over with a friend, trying to find a coffin thatwas within his means
He bought the very cheapest one he could find,plain wood, stained
It cost him twenty-six dollars
It would have costless than four, probably, if it had been built to put something useful into.
He and his family will feel that outlay a good many months.
The Art of Inhumation
ABOUT the same time, I encountered a man in the street,whom I had not seen for six or seven years; and somethinglike this talk followed
'But you used to look sad and oldish; you don't now.
Where did you get all this youth and bubbling cheerfulness?
Give me the address.'
He chuckled blithely, took off his shining tile, pointed to a notchedpink circlet of paper pasted into its crown, with something letteredon it, and went on chuckling while I read, 'J
'That's what's the matter!
It used to be rough times with me when youknew me--insurance-agency business, you know; mighty irregular.
Big fire, all right--brisk trade for ten days while people scared;after that, dull policy-business till next fire
Town like this don'thave fires often enough--a fellow strikes so many dull weeks in a rowthat he gets discouraged
But you bet you, this is the business!
People don't wait for examples to die
No, sir, they drop offright along--there ain't any dull spots in the undertaker line.
I just started in with two or three little old coffins anda hired hearse, and now look at the thing!
I've worked upa business here that would satisfy any man, don't care who he is.
Five years ago, lodged in an attic; live in a swell house now,with a mansard roof, and all the modern inconveniences.'
Does a coffin pay so well
Is there much profit on a coffin?'
Go-way!
How you talk!'
Then, with a confidential wink, a droppingof the voice, and an impressive laying of his hand on my arm;'Look here; there's one thing in this world which isn't ever cheap.
That's a coffin
There's one thing in this world which a person don'tever try to jew you down on
That's a coffin
There's one thingin this world which a person don't say--"I'll look around a little,and if I find I can't do better I'll come back and take it.
That's a coffin
There's one thing in this world which a personwon't take in pine if he can go walnut; and won't take in walnutif he can go mahogany; and won't take in mahogany if he can go an ironcasket with silver door-plate and bronze handles
That's a coffin.
And there's one thing in this world which you don't have to worryaround after a person to get him to pay for
And that's a coffin.
Why, just look at it
A rich man won't have anything but your very best;and you can just pile it on, too--pile it on and sock it to him--he won'tever holler
And you take in a poor man, and if you work him right he'llbust himself on a single lay-out
Or especially a woman
O'Flaherty comes in--widow--wiping her eyes and kind of moaning.
Unhandkerchiefs one eye, bats it around tearfully over the stock; says--
And as I lay-in with the livery stables, of course I don't forget to mentionthat Mrs
O'Shaughnessy hired fifty-four dollars' worth of hacks and flungas much style into Dennis's funeral as if he had been a duke or an assassin.
And of course she sails in and goes the O'Shaughnessy about four hacksand an omnibus better
That used to be, but that's all played now;that is, in this particular town
The Irish got to piling up hacks so,on their funerals, that a funeral left them ragged and hungry fortwo years afterward; so the priest pitched in and broke it all up.
He don't allow them to have but two hacks now, and sometimes only one.'
'Well,' said I, 'if you are so light-hearted and jolly in ordinary times,what must you be in an epidemic?'
He shook his head.
No, you're off, there
We don't like to see an epidemic.
An epidemic don't pay
Well, of course I don't mean that, exactly;but it don't pay in proportion to the regular thing.
Don't it occur to you, why?'
'I can't imagine
What is it?'
'It's just two things.'
'Well, what are they?'
'And what's the other?'
'How is that?'
'Well, in ordinary times, a person dies, and we lay him up in ice;one day two days, maybe three, to wait for friends to come.
Takes a lot of it--melts fast
We charge jewelry rates for that ice,and war-prices for attendance
Well, don't you know, when there'san epidemic, they rush 'em to the cemetery the minute the breath's out.
No market for ice in an epidemic
Same with Embamming.
You take a family that's able to embam, and you've got a soft thing.
You can mention sixteen different ways to do it--though thereAIN'T only one or two ways, when you come down to the bottom factsof it--and they'll take the highest-priced way, every time.
It's human nature--human nature in grief
It don't reason, you see.
Time being, it don't care a dam
All it wants is physical immortalityfor deceased, and they're willing to pay for it
All you've gotto do is to just be ca'm and stack it up--they'll stand the racket.
Why, man, you can take a defunct that you couldn't GIVE away; and getyour embamming traps around you and go to work; and in a couple of hourshe is worth a cool six hundred--that's what HE'S worth
There ain'tanything equal to it but trading rats for di'monds in time of famine.
Well, don't you see, when there's an epidemic, people don't wait to embam.u need any--I mean,when you're going by, sometime.'
In his joyful high spirits, he did the exaggerating himself,if any has been done
I have not enlarged on him.
With the above brief references to inhumation, let us leave the subject.
As for me, I hope to be cremated
I made that remark to my pastor once,who said, with what he seemed to think was an impressive manner--
'I wouldn't worry about that, if I had your chances.'
Much he knew about it--the family all so opposed to it.
THE old French part of New Orleans--anciently the Spanish part--bears no resemblance to the American end of the city:the American end which lies beyond the interveningbrick business-center
The houses are massed in blocks;are austerely plain and dignified; uniform of pattern,with here and there a departure from it with pleasant effect;all are plastered on the outside, and nearly all have long,iron-railed verandas running along the several stories.
Their chief beauty is the deep, warm, varicolored stainwith which time and the weather have enriched the plaster.
It harmonizes with all the surroundings, and has as naturala look of belonging there as has the flush upon sunset clouds.
This charming decoration cannot be successfully imitated;neither is it to be found elsewhere in America.
The iron railings are a specialty, also
The pattern is oftenexceedingly light and dainty, and airy and graceful--with a largecipher or monogram in the center, a delicate cobweb of baffling,intricate forms, wrought in steel
The ancient railings are hand-made,and are now comparatively rare and proportionately valuable.
They are become BRIC-A-BRAC.
The party had the privilege of idling through this ancientquarter of New Orleans with the South's finest literary genius,the author of 'the Grandissimes.'
In him the South has founda masterly delineator of its interior life and its history.
In truth, I find by experience, that the untrained eye andvacant mind can inspect it, and learn of it, and judge of it,more clearly and profitably in his books than by personalcontact with it.
Cable along to see for you, and describe and explain and illuminate,a jog through that old quarter is a vivid pleasure
And you have a vividsense as of unseen or dimly seen things--vivid, and yet fitful and darkling;you glimpse salient features, but lose the fine shades or catch themimperfectly through the vision of the imagination:  a case, as it were,of ignorant near-sighted stranger traversing the rim of wide vague horizonsof Alps with an inspired and enlightened long-sighted native.
We visited the old St
Louis Hotel, now occupied by municipal offices.
There is nothing strikingly remarkable about it; but one can say of itas of the Academy of Music in New York, that if a broom or a shovel has everbeen used in it there is no circumstantial evidence to back up the fact.
It is curious that cabbages and hay and things do not grow in the Academyof Music; but no doubt it is on account of the interruption of the light bythe benches, and the impossibility of hoeing the crop except in the aisles.
The fact that the ushers grow their buttonhole-bouquets on the premisesshows what might be done if they had the right kind of an agricultural headto the establishment.
We visited also the venerable Cathedral, and the pretty square in front of it;the one dim with religious light, the other brilliant with the worldly sort,and lovely with orange-trees and blossomy shrubs; then we drove in the hot sunthrough the wilderness of houses and out on to the wide dead level beyond,where the villas are, and the water wheels to drain the town, and the commonspopulous with cows and children; passing by an old cemetery where we weretold lie the ashes of an early pirate; but we took him on trust, and didnot visit him
He was a pirate with a tremendous and sanguinary history;and as long as he preserved unspotted, in retirement, the dignity of hisname and the grandeur of his ancient calling, homage and reverence were hisfrom high and low; but when at last he descended into politics and becamea paltry alderman, the public 'shook' him, and turned aside and wept.
When he died, they set up a monument over him; and little by little he hascome into respect again; but it is respect for the pirate, not the alderman.
To-day the loyal and generous remember only what he was, and charitably forgetwhat he became.
Thence, we drove a few miles across a swamp, along a raised shell road,with a canal on one hand and a dense wood on the other; and here and there,in the distance, a ragged and angular-limbed and moss-bearded cypress,top standing out, clear cut against the sky, and as quaint of form as theapple-trees in Japanese pictures--such was our course and the surroundingsof it
There was an occasional alligator swimming comfortably alongin the canal, and an occasional picturesque colored person on the bank,flinging his statue-rigid reflection upon the still water and watchingfor a bite.
And by-and-bye we reached the West End, a collection of hotels ofthe usual light summer-resort pattern, with broad verandas all around,and the waves of the wide and blue Lake Pontchartrain lapping the thresholds.
We had dinner on a ground-veranda over the water--the chief dish the renownedfish called the pompano, delicious as the less criminal forms of sin.
Thousands of people come by rail and carriage to West End andto Spanish Fort every evening, and dine, listen to the bands,take strolls in the open air under the electric lights,go sailing on the lake, and entertain themselves in variousand sundry other ways.
We had opportunities on other days and in other places to test the pompano.
Notably, at an editorial dinner at one of the clubs in the city.
He was in his last possible perfection there, and justified his fame.
In his suite was a tall pyramid of scarlet cray-fish--large ones; as largeas one's thumb--delicate, palatable, appetizing
Also deviled whitebait;also shrimps of choice quality; and a platter of small soft-shell crabsof a most superior breed
The other dishes were what one might getat Delmonico's, or Buckingham Palace; those I have spoken of can be hadin similar perfection in New Orleans only, I suppose.
In the West and South they have a new institution--the Broom Brigade.
It is composed of young ladies who dress in a uniform costume,and go through the infantry drill, with broom in place of musket.
It is a very pretty sight, on private view
When they performon the stage of a theater, in the blaze of colored fires,it must be a fine and fascinating spectacle
I saw them go throughtheir complex manual with grace, spirit, and admirable precision.
I saw them do everything which a human being can possibly do with a broom,except sweep
I did not see them sweep
But I know they could learn.
What they have already learned proves that
And if they evershould learn, and should go on the war-path down Tchoupitoulasor some of those other streets around there, those thoroughfareswould bear a greatly improved aspect in a very few minutes.
But the girls themselves wouldn't; so nothing would be really gained,after all.
The drill was in the Washington Artillery building.
In this building we saw many interesting relics of the war.
Also a fine oil-painting representing Stonewall Jackson'slast interview with General Lee
Both men are on horseback.
Jackson has just ridden up, and is accosting Lee.
The picture is very valuable, on account of the portraits,which are authentic
But, like many another historical picture,it means nothing without its label
And one label will fit itas well as another--
First Interview between Lee and Jackson.
Last Interview between Lee and Jackson.
Jackson Introducing Himself to Lee.
Jackson Accepting Lee's Invitation to Dinner.
Jackson Declining Lee's Invitation to Dinner--with Thanks.
Jackson Apologizing for a Heavy Defeat.
Jackson Reporting a Great Victory.
Jackson Asking Lee for a Match.
It tells ONE story, and a sufficient one; for it says quiteplainly and satisfactorily, 'Here are Lee and Jackson together.'
The artist would have made it tell that this is Lee and Jackson's lastinterview if he could have done it
But he couldn't, for there wasn'tany way to do it
A good legible label is usually worth, for information,a ton of significant attitude and expression in a historical picture.
In Rome, people with fine sympathetic natures stand up and weep in frontof the celebrated 'Beatrice Cenci the Day before her Execution.'
It shows what a label can do
If they did not know the picture,they would inspect it unmoved, and say, 'Young girl with hay fever;young girl with her head in a bag.'
I found the half-forgotten Southern intonations andelisions as pleasing to my ear as they had formerly been.
A Southerner talks music
At least it is music to me,but then I was born in the South
The educated Southernerhas no use for an r, except at the beginning of a word.
He says 'honah,' and 'dinnah,' and 'Gove'nuh,' and 'befo' the waw,'and so on
The words may lack charm to the eye, in print,but they have it to the ear
When did the r disappearfrom Southern speech, and how did it come to disappear?
The custom of dropping it was not borrowed from the North,nor inherited from England
Many Southerners--most Southerners--put a y into occasional words that begin with the k sound.
And theyhave the pleasant custom--long ago fallen into decay inthe North--of frequently employing the respectful 'Sir.'
Instead of the curt Yes, and the abrupt No, they say 'Yes, Suh','No, Suh.'
But there are some infelicities
Such as 'like' for 'as,'and the addition of an 'at' where it isn't needed.
I heard an educated gentleman say, 'Like the flag-officer did.'
His cook or his butler would have said, 'Like the flag-officer done.'
You hear gentlemen say, 'Where have you been at?'
And here isthe aggravated form--heard a ragged street Arab say it to a comrade:'I was a-ask'n' Tom whah you was a-sett'n' at.'
The very electcarelessly say 'will' when they mean 'shall'; and many of them say,'I didn't go to do it,' meaning 'I didn't mean to do it.'
The Northern word 'guess'--imported from England, where itused to be common, and now regarded by satirical Englishmenas a Yankee original--is but little used among Southerners.
They say 'reckon.'
They haven't any 'doesn't' in their language;they say 'don't' instead
The unpolished often use 'went' for 'gone.'
It is nearly as bad as the Northern 'hadn't ought.'
This reminds methat a remark of a very peculiar nature was made here in my neighborhood(in the North) a few days ago:  'He hadn't ought to have went.'
How is that?
Isn't that a good deal of a triumph?
One knows the orders combined in this half-breed's architecturewithout inquiring:  one parent Northern, the other Southern.
To-day I heard a schoolmistress ask, 'Where is John gone?'
This form is so common--so nearly universal, in fact--that if shehad used 'whither' instead of 'where,' I think it would have soundedlike an affectation.
We picked up one excellent word--a word worth traveling to NewOrleans to get; a nice limber, expressive, handy word--'lagniappe.'
They pronounce it lanny-yap
It is Spanish--so they said.
We discovered it at the head of a column of odds and ends inthe Picayune, the first day; heard twenty people use it the second;inquired what it meant the third; adopted it and got facilityin swinging it the fourth
It has a restricted meaning,but I think the people spread it out a little when they choose.
It is the equivalent of the thirteenth roll in a 'baker's dozen.'
It is something thrown in, gratis, for good measure.
The custom originated in the Spanish quarter of the city.
When a child or a servant buys something in a shop--or even the mayor or the governor, for aught I know--he finishesthe operation by saying--
'Give me something for lagniappe.'
The shopman always responds; gives the child a bit of licorice-root,gives the servant a cheap cigar or a spool of thread, gives the governor--I don't know what he gives the governor; support, likely.
When you are invited to drink, and this does occur now and thenin New Orleans--and you say, 'What, again?
--no, I've had enough;'the other party says, 'But just this one time more--this is for lagniappe.'
When the beau perceives that he is stacking his compliments a trifle too high,and sees by the young lady's countenance that the edifice would have beenbetter with the top compliment left off, he puts his 'I beg pardon--no harm intended,' into the briefer form of 'Oh, that's for lagniappe.'
If the waiter in the restaurant stumbles and spills a gill of coffee downthe back of your neck, he says 'For lagniappe, sah,' and gets you another cupwithout extra charge.
IN the North one hears the war mentioned, in social conversation,once a month; sometimes as often as once a week; but as a distinctsubject for talk, it has long ago been relieved of duty
There aresufficient reasons for this
Given a dinner company of six gentlemento-day, it can easily happen that four of them--and possibly five--were not in the field at all
So the chances are four to two,or five to one, that the war will at no time during the eveningbecome the topic of conversation; and the chances are still greaterthat if it become the topic it will remain so but a little while.
If you add six ladies to the company, you have added six peoplewho saw so little of the dread realities of the war that they ranout of talk concerning them years ago, and now would soon weary ofthe war topic if you brought it up.
The case is very different in the South
There, every man youmeet was in the war; and every lady you meet saw the war.
The war is the great chief topic of conversation
The interest in itis vivid and constant; the interest in other topics is fleeting.
Mention of the war will wake up a dull company and settheir tongues going, when nearly any other topic would fail.
All day long you hear things 'placed' as having happened since the waw;or du'in' the waw; or befo' the waw; or right aftah the waw;or 'bout two yeahs or five yeahs or ten yeahs befo' the wawor aftah the waw
It shows how intimately every individualwas visited, in his own person, by that tremendous episode.
It gives the inexperienced stranger a better idea of what a vastand comprehensive calamity invasion is than he can ever get by readingbooks at the fireside.
At a club one evening, a gentleman turned to me and said,in an aside--
'You notice, of course, that we are nearly always talking about the war.
It isn't because we haven't anything else to talk about, but because nothingelse has so strong an interest for us
And there is another reason:In the war, each of us, in his own person, seems to have sampledall the different varieties of human experience; as a consequence,you can't mention an outside matter of any sort but it will certainlyremind some listener of something that happened during the war--and out he comes with it
Of course that brings the talk back to the war.
You may try all you want to, to keep other subjects before the house,and we may all join in and help, but there can be but one result:the most random topic would load every man up with war reminiscences,and shut him up, too; and talk would be likely to stop presently,because you can't talk pale inconsequentialities when you'vegot a crimson fact or fancy in your head that you are burningto fetch out.'
The poet was sitting some little distance away; and presentlyhe began to speak--about the moon.
The gentleman who had been talking to me remarked in an 'aside:''There, the moon is far enough from the seat of war, but youwill see that it will suggest something to somebody about the war;in ten minutes from now the moon, as a topic, will be shelved.'
The poet was saying he had noticed something which was a surpriseto him; had had the impression that down here, toward the equator,the moonlight was much stronger and brighter than up North;had had the impression that when he visited New Orleans,many years ago, the moon--
Interruption from the other end of the room--
'Let me explain that
Reminds me of an anecdote.
Everything is changed since the war, for better or for worse;but you'll find people down here born grumblers, who see nochange except the change for the worse
There was an old negrowoman of this sort
The new topic was dead already
But the poet resurrected it,and gave it a new start.
A brief dispute followed, as to whether the difference betweenNorthern and Southern moonlight really existed or was only imagined.
Moonlight talk drifted easily into talk about artificialmethods of dispelling darkness
Then somebody rememberedthat when Farragut advanced upon Port Hudson on a dark night--and did not wish to assist the aim of the Confederate gunners--he carried no battle-lanterns, but painted the decks of his ships white,and thus created a dim but valuable light, which enabled hisown men to grope their way around with considerable facility.
At this point the war got the floor again--the ten minutes notquite up yet.
I was not sorry, for war talk by men who have been in a waris always interesting; whereas moon talk by a poet who hasnot been in the moon is likely to be dull.
We went to a cockpit in New Orleans on a Saturday afternoon.
I had never seen a cock-fight before
There were men and boys thereof all ages and all colors, and of many languages and nationalities.
But I noticed one quite conspicuous and surprising absence:the traditional brutal faces
There were no brutal faces.
With no cock-fighting going on, you could have played the gatheringon a stranger for a prayer-meeting; and after it began,for a revival--provided you blindfolded your stranger--for the shouting was something prodigious.
A negro and a white man were in the ring; everybody else outside.
The cocks were brought in in sacks; and when time was called,they were taken out by the two bottle-holders, stroked,caressed, poked toward each other, and finally liberated.
The big black cock plunged instantly at the little gray one and struckhim on the head with his spur
The gray responded with spirit.
Then the Babel of many-tongued shoutings broke out, and ceasednot thenceforth
When the cocks had been fighting some little time,I was expecting them momently to drop dead, for both were blind,red with blood, and so exhausted that they frequently fell down.
Yet they would not give up, neither would they die.
The negro and the white man would pick them up every few seconds,wipe them off, blow cold water on them in a fine spray,and take their heads in their mouths and hold them therea moment--to warm back the perishing life perhaps;I do not know
Then, being set down again, the dyingcreatures would totter gropingly about, with dragging wings,find each other, strike a guesswork blow or two, and fallexhausted once more.
I did not see the end of the battle
I forced myself to endureit as long as I could, but it was too pitiful a sight;so I made frank confession to that effect, and we retired.
We heard afterward that the black cock died in the ring,and fighting to the last.
Evidently there is abundant fascination about this 'sport' for suchas have had a degree of familiarity with it
I never saw peopleenjoy anything more than this gathering enjoyed this fight.
The case was the same with old gray-heads and with boys of ten.
They lost themselves in frenzies of delight
The 'cocking-main'is an inhuman sort of entertainment, there is no questionabout that; still, it seems a much more respectable and farless cruel sport than fox-hunting--for the cocks like it;they experience, as well as confer enjoyment; which is notthe fox's case.
We assisted--in the French sense--at a mule race, one day.
I believe I enjoyed this contest more than any other mule there.
I enjoyed it more than I remember having enjoyed any other animalrace I ever saw
The grand-stand was well filled with the beautyand the chivalry of New Orleans
That phrase is not original with me.
It is the Southern reporter's
He has used it for two generations.
He uses it twenty times a day, or twenty thousand times a day;or a million times a day--according to the exigencies.
He is obliged to use it a million times a day, if he haveoccasion to speak of respectable men and women that often;for he has no other phrase for such service except that single one.
He never tires of it; it always has a fine sound to him.
There is a kind of swell medieval bulliness and tinsel about itthat pleases his gaudy barbaric soul
If he had been in Palestinein the early times, we should have had no references to 'much people'out of him
No, he would have said 'the beauty and the chivalryof Galilee' assembled to hear the Sermon on the Mount.
It is likely that the men and women of the South are sick enoughof that phrase by this time, and would like a change, but there is noimmediate prospect of their getting it.
The New Orleans editor has a strong, compact, direct, unflowery style;wastes no words, and does not gush
Not so with his average correspondent.
In the Appendix I have quoted a good letter, penned by a trained hand;but the average correspondent hurls a style which differs from that.
For instance--
The 'Times-Democrat' sent a relief-steamer up one of the bayous, last April.
This steamer landed at a village, up there somewhere, and the Captaininvited some of the ladies of the village to make a short trip with him.
They accepted and came aboard, and the steamboat shoved out up the creek.
That was all there was 'to it.'
And that is all that the editorof the 'Times-Democrat' would have got out of it
There was nothingin the thing but statistics, and he would have got nothing else out of it.
He would probably have even tabulated them, partly to secureperfect clearness of statement, and partly to save space.
But his special correspondent knows other methods of handling statistics.
He just throws off all restraint and wallows in them--
'On Saturday, early in the morning, the beauty of the place graced our cabin,and proud of her fair freight the gallant little boat glided up the bayou.'
Twenty-two words to say the ladies came aboard and the boatshoved out up the creek, is a clean waste of ten good words,and is also destructive of compactness of statement.
The trouble with the Southern reporter is--Women
They unsettle him;they throw him off his balance
He is plain, and sensible,and satisfactory, until a woman heaves in sight
Then he goesall to pieces; his mind totters, he becomes flowery and idiotic.
From reading the above extract, you would imagine that this studentof Sir Walter Scott is an apprentice, and knows next to nothingabout handling a pen
On the contrary, he furnishes plenty of proofs,in his long letter, that he knows well enough how to handle it whenthe women are not around to give him the artificial-flower complaint.
For instance--
'At 4 o'clock ominous clouds began to gather in the south-east, and presentlyfrom the Gulf there came a blow which increased in severity every moment.
It was not safe to leave the landing then, and there was a delay.
The oaks shook off long tresses of their mossy beards to the tuggingof the wind, and the bayou in its ambition put on miniature wavesin mocking of much larger bodies of water
A lull permitted a start,and homewards we steamed, an inky sky overhead and a heavy wind blowing.
As darkness crept on, there were few on board who did not wishthemselves nearer home.'
There is nothing the matter with that
It is good description,compactly put
Yet there was great temptation, there, to dropinto lurid writing.
But let us return to the mule
Since I left him, I have rummagedaround and found a full report of the race
In it I find confirmationof the theory which I broached just now--namely, that the troublewith the Southern reporter is Women:  Women, supplemented by WalterScott and his knights and beauty and chivalry, and so on.
This is an excellent report, as long as the women stay out of it.
But when they intrude, we have this frantic result--
'It will be probably a long time before the ladies'stand presents such a sea of foam-like loveliness as itdid yesterday
The New Orleans women are always charming,but never so much so as at this time of the year, when.
in their dainty spring costumes they bring with them a breathof balmy freshness and an odor of sanctity unspeakable.
The stand was so crowded with them that, walking at their feetand seeing no possibility of approach, many a man appreciatedas he never did before the Peri's feeling at the Gates of Paradise,and wondered what was the priceless boon that would admit himto their sacred presence
Sparkling on their white-robedbreasts or shoulders were the colors of their favorite knights,and were it not for the fact that the doughty heroes appearedon unromantic mules, it would have been easy to imagine one ofKing Arthur's gala-days.'
There were thirteen mules in the first heat; all sorts of mules,they were; all sorts of complexions, gaits, dispositions, aspects.
Some were handsome creatures, some were not; some were sleek,some hadn't had their fur brushed lately; some were innocentlygay and frisky; some were full of malice and all unrighteousness;guessing from looks, some of them thought the matter on hand was war,some thought it was a lark, the rest took it for a religious occasion.
And each mule acted according to his convictions
The result was anabsence of harmony well compensated by a conspicuous presence of variety--variety of a picturesque and entertaining sort.
All the riders were young gentlemen in fashionable society.
If the reader has been wondering why it is that the ladies of New Orleansattend so humble an orgy as a mule-race, the thing is explained now.
It is a fashion-freak; all connected with it are people of fashion.
It is great fun, and cordially liked
The mule-race is one of the markedoccasions of the year
It has brought some pretty fast mules to the front.
One of these had to be ruled out, because he was so fast that he turnedthe thing into a one-mule contest, and robbed it of one of itsbest features--variety
But every now and then somebody disguises himwith a new name and a new complexion, and rings him in again.
The riders dress in full jockey costumes of bright-colored silks,satins, and velvets.
The thirteen mules got away in a body, after a coupleof false starts, and scampered off with prodigious spirit.
As each mule and each rider had a distinct opinion of his ownas to how the race ought to be run, and which side of the trackwas best in certain circumstances, and how often the track oughtto be crossed, and when a collision ought to be accomplished,and when it ought to be avoided, these twenty-six conflictingopinions created a most fantastic and picturesque confusion,and the resulting spectacle was killingly comical.
Mile heat; time 2:22
Eight of the thirteen mules distanced.
I had a bet on a mule which would have won if the processionhad been reversed
The second heat was good fun; and so wasthe 'consolation race for beaten mules,' which followed later;but the first heat was the best in that respect.
I think that much the most enjoyable of all races isa steamboat race; but, next to that, I prefer the gayand joyous mule-rush
Two red-hot steamboats raging along,neck-and-neck, straining every nerve--that is to say,every rivet in the boilers--quaking and shaking and groaningfrom stem to stern, spouting white steam from the pipes,pouring black smoke from the chimneys, raining down sparks,parting the river into long breaks of hissing foam--this issport that makes a body's very liver curl with enjoyment.
A horse-race is pretty tame and colorless in comparison.
Still, a horse-race might be well enough, in its way,perhaps, if it were not for the tiresome false starts.
But then, nobody is ever killed
At least, nobody was ever killedwhen I was at a horse-race
They have been crippled, it is true;but this is little to the purpose.
Enchantments and Enchanters
THE largest annual event in New Orleans is a something which wearrived too late to sample--the Mardi-Gras festivities.
I saw the procession of the Mystic Crew of Comus there,twenty-four years ago--with knights and nobles and so on,clothed in silken and golden Paris-made gorgeousnesses,planned and bought for that single night's use; and in theirtrain all manner of giants, dwarfs, monstrosities, and otherdiverting grotesquerie--a startling and wonderful sort of show,as it filed solemnly and silently down the street in the lightof its smoking and flickering torches; but it is said thatin these latter days the spectacle is mightily augmented,as to cost, splendor, and variety
There is a chief personage--'Rex;'and if I remember rightly, neither this king nor any of hisgreat following of subordinates is known to any outsider.
All these people are gentlemen of position and consequence;and it is a proud thing to belong to the organization; so the mysteryin which they hide their personality is merely for romance's sake,and not on account of the police.
Mardi-Gras is of course a relic of the French and Spanish occupation; but Ijudge that the religious feature has been pretty well knocked out of it now.
Sir Walter has got the advantage of the gentlemen of the cowl and rosary,and he will stay
His medieval business, supplemented by the monsters andthe oddities, and the pleasant creatures from fairy-land, is finer to lookat than the poor fantastic inventions and performances of the reveling rabbleof the priest's day, and serves quite as well, perhaps, to emphasize the dayand admonish men that the grace-line between the worldly season and the holyone is reached.
This Mardi-Gras pageant was the exclusive possession of NewOrleans until recently
But now it has spread to Memphis andSt
Louis and Baltimore
It has probably reached its limit.
It is a thing which could hardly exist in the practical North;would certainly last but a very brief time; as brief a timeas it would last in London
For the soul of it is the romantic,not the funny and the grotesque
Take away the romanticmysteries, the kings and knights and big-sounding titles,and Mardi-Gras would die, down there in the South.
The very feature that keeps it alive in the South--girly-girly romance--would kill it in the North or in London.
Puck and Punch, and the press universal, would fall upon itand make merciless fun of it, and its first exhibition would bealso its last.
Against the crimes of the French Revolution and of Bonapartemay be set two compensating benefactions:  the Revolutionbroke the chains of the ANCIEN REGIME and of the Church,and made of a nation of abject slaves a nation of freemen;and Bonaparte instituted the setting of merit above birth,and also so completely stripped the divinity from royalty,that whereas crowned heads in Europe were gods before,they are only men, since, and can never be gods again,but only figureheads, and answerable for their acts like common clay.
Such benefactions as these compensate the temporary harm whichBonaparte and the Revolution did, and leave the world in debtto them for these great and permanent services to liberty,humanity, and progress.
Then comes Sir Walter Scott with his enchantments, and by hissingle might checks this wave of progress, and even turns it back;sets the world in love with dreams and phantoms; with decayed and swinishforms of religion; with decayed and degraded systems of government;with the sillinesses and emptinesses, sham grandeurs, sham gauds,and sham chivalries of a brainless and worthless long-vanished society.
He did measureless harm; more real and lasting harm, perhaps, than anyother individual that ever wrote
Most of the world has nowoutlived good part of these harms, though by no means all of them;but in our South they flourish pretty forcefully still
Not soforcefully as half a generation ago, perhaps, but still forcefully.
There, the genuine and wholesome civilization of the nineteenthcentury is curiously confused and commingled with the WalterScott Middle-Age sham civilization; and so you have practical,common-sense, progressive ideas, and progressive works; mixed upwith the duel, the inflated speech, and the jejune romanticism of anabsurd past that is dead, and out of charity ought to be buried.
But for the Sir Walter disease, the character of the Southerner--or Southron, according to Sir Walter's starchier way of phrasing it--would be wholly modern, in place of modern and medieval mixed,and the South would be fully a generation further advanced than it is.
It was Sir Walter that made every gentleman in the South a Majoror a Colonel, or a General or a Judge, before the war; and itwas he, also, that made these gentlemen value these bogus decorations.
For it was he that created rank and caste down there, and alsoreverence for rank and caste, and pride and pleasure in them.
Enough is laid on slavery, without fathering upon it these creations andcontributions of Sir Walter.
Sir Walter had so large a hand in making Southern character, as it existedbefore the war, that he is in great measure responsible for the war.
It seems a little harsh toward a dead man to say that we never should have hadany war but for Sir Walter; and yet something of a plausible argument might,perhaps, be made in support of that wild proposition
The Southerner ofthe American Revolution owned slaves; so did the Southerner of the Civil War:but the former resembles the latter as an Englishman resembles a Frenchman.
The change of character can be traced rather more easily to Sir Walter'sinfluence than to that of any other thing or person.
One may observe, by one or two signs, how deeplythat influence penetrated, and how strongly it holds.
If one take up a Northern or Southern literary periodicalof forty or fifty years ago, he will find it filled with wordy,windy, flowery 'eloquence,' romanticism, sentimentality--all imitated from Sir Walter, and sufficiently badly done, too--innocent travesties of his style and methods, in fact.
This sort of literature being the fashion in both sections ofthe country, there was opportunity for the fairest competition;and as a consequence, the South was able to show as manywell-known literary names, proportioned to population,as the North could.
But a change has come, and there is no opportunitynow for a fair competition between North and South.
For the North has thrown out that old inflated style,whereas the Southern writer still clings to it--clings to itand has a restricted market for his wares, as a consequence.
There is as much literary talent in the South, now, as everthere was, of course; but its work can gain but slight currencyunder present conditions; the authors write for the past,not the present; they use obsolete forms, and a dead language.
But when a Southerner of genius writes modern English,his book goes upon crutches no longer, but upon wings;and they carry it swiftly all about America and England,and through the great English reprint publishing houses of Germany--as witness the experience of Mr
Cable and Uncle Remus, two of thevery few Southern authors who do not write in the Southern style.
Instead of three or four widely-known literary names, the Southought to have a dozen or two--and will have them when Sir Walter'stime is out.
A curious exemplification of the power of a single book forgood or harm is shown in the effects wrought by 'Don Quixote'and those wrought by 'Ivanhoe.'
The first swept the world'sadmiration for the medieval chivalry-silliness out of existence;and the other restored it
As far as our South is concerned,the good work done by Cervantes is pretty nearly a dead letter,so effectually has Scott's pernicious work undermined it.
We were able to detect him among the crowd of arrivals atthe hotel-counter by his correspondence with a descriptionof him which had been furnished us from a trustworthy source.
He was said to be undersized, red-haired, and somewhat freckled.
He was the only man in the party whose outside tallied with thisbill of particulars
He was said to be very shy
He is a shy man.
Of this there is no doubt
It may not show on the surface,but the shyness is there
After days of intimacy one wondersto see that it is still in about as strong force as ever.
There is a fine and beautiful nature hidden behind it, as all knowwho have read the Uncle Remus book; and a fine genius, too, as all knowby the same sign
I seem to be talking quite freely about this neighbor;but in talking to the public I am but talking to his personal friends,and these things are permissible among friends.
He deeply disappointed a number of children who had flockedeagerly to Mr
Cable's house to get a glimpse of the illustrioussage and oracle of the nation's nurseries
They were grieved about it
So, to console them, the book was brought,that they might hear Uncle Remus's Tar-Baby story from the lips of UncleRemus himself--or what, in their outraged eyes, was left of him.
But it turned out that he had never read aloud to people, and was too shyto venture the attempt now
Cable and I read from books of ours,to show him what an easy trick it was; but his immortal shyness wasproof against even this sagacious strategy, so we had to read aboutBrer Rabbit ourselves.
Harris ought to be able to read the negro dialect betterthan anybody else, for in the matter of writing it he is the onlymaster the country has produced
Cable is the only masterin the writing of French dialects that the country has produced;and he reads them in perfection
It was a great treat to hear himread about Jean-ah Poquelin, and about Innerarity and his famous'pigshoo' representing 'Louisihanna RIF-fusing to Hanter the Union,'along with passages of nicely-shaded German dialect from a novelwhich was still in manuscript.
It came out in conversation, that in two different instancesMr
Cable got into grotesque trouble by using, in his books,next-to-impossible French names which nevertheless happenedto be borne by living and sensitive citizens of New Orleans.
His names were either inventions or were borrowed fromthe ancient and obsolete past, I do not now remember which;but at any rate living bearers of them turned up, and werea good deal hurt at having attention directed to themselvesand their affairs in so excessively public a manner.
Warner and I had an experience of the same sort when we wrote the bookcalled 'The Gilded Age.'
There is a character in it called 'Sellers.'
I do not remember what his first name was, in the beginning;but anyway, Mr
Warner did not like it, and wanted it improved.
He asked me if I was able to imagine a person named 'Eschol Sellers.'
Of course I said I could not, without stimulants
He said that awayout West, once, he had met, and contemplated, and actually shakenhands with a man bearing that impossible name--'Eschol Sellers.'
We will confiscate his name
The name you are using is common,and therefore dangerous; there are probably a thousand Sellersesbearing it, and the whole horde will come after us; but EscholSellers is a safe name--it is a rock.'
So we borrowed that name; and when the book had been out about a week,one of the stateliest and handsomest and most aristocratic lookingwhite men that ever lived, called around, with the most formidablelibel suit in his pocket that ever--well, in brief, we got hispermission to suppress an edition of ten million<footnote [Figurestaken from memory, and probably incorrect
Sugar and Postage
ONE day, on the street, I encountered the man whom, of all men,I most wished to see--Horace Bixby; formerly pilot under me--or rather, over me--now captain of the great steamer 'City ofBaton Rouge,' the latest and swiftest addition to the Anchor Line.
The same slender figure, the same tight curls, the same springy step,the same alertness, the same decision of eye and answering decisionof hand, the same erect military bearing; not an inch gained or lostin girth, not an ounce gained or lost in weight, not a hair turned.
It is a curious thing, to leave a man thirty-five years old, and comeback at the end of twenty-one years and find him still only thirty-five.
I have not had an experience of this kind before, I believe.
There were some crow's-feet, but they counted for next to nothing,since they were inconspicuous.
His boat was just in
I had been waiting several days for her,purposing to return to St
Louis in her
The captain and Ijoined a party of ladies and gentlemen, guests of Major Wood,and went down the river fifty-four miles, in a swift tug,to ex-Governor Warmouth's sugar plantation
Strung along belowthe city, were a number of decayed, ram-shackly, superannuatedold steamboats, not one of which had I ever seen before.
They had all been built, and worn out, and thrown aside,since I was here last
This gives one a realizing senseof the frailness of a Mississippi boat and the briefnessof its life.
Six miles below town a fat and battered brick chimney, sticking abovethe magnolias and live-oaks, was pointed out as the monument erectedby an appreciative nation to celebrate the battle of New Orleans--Jackson's victory over the British, January 8, 1815
The war had ended,the two nations were at peace, but the news had not yet reached New Orleans.
If we had had the cable telegraph in those days, this blood wouldnot have been spilt, those lives would not have been wasted;and better still, Jackson would probably never have been president.
We have gotten over the harms done us by the war of 1812, but not over someof those done us by Jackson's presidency.
The Warmouth plantation covers a vast deal of ground, and the hospitalityof the Warmouth mansion is graduated to the same large scale.
We saw steam-plows at work, here, for the first time
The traction enginetravels about on its own wheels, till it reaches the required spot;then it stands still and by means of a wire rope pulls the huge plow towarditself two or three hundred yards across the field, between the rows of cane.
The thing cuts down into the black mold a foot and a half deep.
The plow looks like a fore-and-aft brace of a Hudson river steamer, inverted.
When the negro steersman sits on one end of it, that end tilts down nearthe ground, while the other sticks up high in air
This great see-saw goesrolling and pitching like a ship at sea, and it is not every circus riderthat could stay on it.
The plantation contains two thousand six hundred acres;six hundred and fifty are in cane; and there is a fruitfulorange grove of five thousand trees
The cane iscultivated after a modern and intricate scientific fashion,too elaborate and complex for me to attempt to describe;but it lost $40,000 last year
I forget the other details.
However, this year's crop will reach ten or twelve hundredtons of sugar, consequently last year's loss will not matter.
These troublesome and expensive scientific methods achieve a yieldof a ton and a half and from that to two tons, to the acre;which is three or four times what the yield of an acre wasin my time.
The drainage-ditches were everywhere alive withlittle crabs--'fiddlers.'
One saw them scampering sidewisein every direction whenever they heard a disturbing noise.
Expensive pests, these crabs; for they bore into the levees,and ruin them.
The great sugar-house was a wilderness of tubs and tanksand vats and filters, pumps, pipes, and machinery.
The process of making sugar is exceedingly interesting.
First, you heave your cane into the centrifugals and grind outthe juice; then run it through the evaporating pan to extractthe fiber; then through the bone-filter to remove the alcohol;then through the clarifying tanks to discharge the molasses;then through the granulating pipe to condense it; then throughthe vacuum pan to extract the vacuum
It is now ready for market.
I have jotted these particulars down from memory.
The thing looks simple and easy
Do not deceive yourself.
To make sugar is really one of the most difficult thingsin the world
And to make it right, is next to impossible.
If you will examine your own supply every now and thenfor a term of years, and tabulate the result, you will findthat not two men in twenty can make sugar without getting sandinto it.
We could have gone down to the mouth of the river and visited Captain Eads'great work, the 'jetties,' where the river has been compressed between walls,and thus deepened to twenty-six feet; but it was voted useless to go,since at this stage of the water everything would be covered up and invisible.
We could have visited that ancient and singular burg,'Pilot-town,' which stands on stilts in the water--so they say;where nearly all communication is by skiff and canoe, even tothe attending of weddings and funerals; and where the littlestboys and girls are as handy with the oar as unamphibiouschildren are with the velocipede.
We could have done a number of other things; but on account of limited time,we went back home
The sail up the breezy and sparkling river wasa charming experience, and would have been satisfyingly sentimentaland romantic but for the interruptions of the tug's pet parrot,whose tireless comments upon the scenery and the guests were alwaysthis-worldly, and often profane
He had also a superabundanceof the discordant, ear-splitting, metallic laugh common to his breed--a machine-made laugh, a Frankenstein laugh, with the soul left out of it.
He applied it to every sentimental remark, and to every pathetic song.
He cackled it out with hideous energy after 'Home again, home againfrom a foreign shore,' and said he 'wouldn't give a damn for a tug-loadof such rot.'
Romance and sentiment cannot long survive this sortof discouragement; so the singing and talking presently ceased; which sodelighted the parrot that he cursed himself hoarse for joy.
Then the male members of the party moved to the forecastle,to smoke and gossip
There were several old steamboatmen along,and I learned from them a great deal of what had beenhappening to my former river friends during my long absence.
I learned that a pilot whom I used to steer for is becomea spiritualist, and for more than fifteen years has beenreceiving a letter every week from a deceased relative,through a New York spiritualist medium named Manchester--postage graduated by distance:  from the local post-officein Paradise to New York, five dollars; from New York toSt
Louis, three cents
I remember Mr
Manchester very well.
I called on him once, ten years ago, with a couple of friends,one of whom wished to inquire after a deceased uncle.
This uncle had lost his life in a peculiarly violent andunusual way, half a dozen years before:  a cyclone blew himsome three miles and knocked a tree down with him which wasfour feet through at the butt and sixty-five feet high.
He did not survive this triumph
Manchester's hand and pencil for that purpose.
The following is a fair example of the questions asked,and also of the sloppy twaddle in the way of answers, furnished byManchester under the pretense that it came from the specter.
If this man is not the paltriest fraud that lives, I owe him anapology--
Where are you?
In the spirit world.
Are you happy?
How do you amuse yourself?
Conversation with friends, and other spirits.
Nothing else is necessary.
What do you talk about?
About how happy we are; and about friends left behind in the earth,and how to influence them for their good.
It is explained that spirits will not answer frivolous questions.
How is it that spirits that are content to spend an eternityin frivolous employments, and accept it as happiness,are so fastidious about frivolous questions upon the subject?
Would you like to come back?
Would you say that under oath?
What do you eat there?
We do not eat.
What do you drink?
We do not drink.
What do you smoke?
We do not smoke.
What do you read?
We do not read.
Do all the good people go to your place?
You know my present way of life
Can you suggest any additions to it,in the way of crime, that will reasonably insure my going to some other place.
When did you die?
I did not die, I passed away.
Very well, then, when did you pass away?
How long have youbeen in the spirit land?
We have no measurements of time here.
Though you may be indifferent and uncertain as to datesand times in your present condition and environment,this has nothing to do with your former condition.
You had dates then
One of these is what I ask for.
You departed on a certain day in a certain year.
Is not this true?
Then name the day of the month.
Then this one has actually forgotten the date of its translationto the spirit land?
This was granted to be the case.
This is very curious
Well, then, what year was it?
This is indeed stupendous
Let me put one more question,one last question, to you, before we part to meet no more;--for even if I fail to avoid your asylum, a meeting there will gofor nothing as a meeting, since by that time you will easilyhave forgotten me and my name:  did you die a natural death,or were you cut off by a catastrophe?
This ended the interview
My friend told the medium that when his relativewas in this poor world, he was endowed with an extraordinary intellectand an absolutely defectless memory, and it seemed a great pity that he hadnot been allowed to keep some shred of these for his amusement in the realmsof everlasting contentment, and for the amazement and admiration of the restof the population there.
This man had plenty of clients--has plenty yet
He receivesletters from spirits located in every part of the spirit world,and delivers them all over this country through the United States mail.
These letters are filled with advice--advice from 'spirits' who don'tknow as much as a tadpole--and this advice is religiously followedby the receivers
One of these clients was a man whom the spirits(if one may thus plurally describe the ingenious Manchester)were teaching how to contrive an improved railway car-wheel
Itis coarse employment for a spirit, but it is higher and wholesomeractivity than talking for ever about 'how happy we are.'
Episodes in Pilot Life
IN the course of the tug-boat gossip, it came out that outof every five of my former friends who had quitted the river,four had chosen farming as an occupation
Of course this was notbecause they were peculiarly gifted, agriculturally, and thusmore likely to succeed as farmers than in other industries:the reason for their choice must be traced to some other source.
Doubtless they chose farming because that life is privateand secluded from irruptions of undesirable strangers--like the pilot-house hermitage
And doubtless they also choseit because on a thousand nights of black storm and dangerthey had noted the twinkling lights of solitary farm-houses,as the boat swung by, and pictured to themselves the serenityand security and coziness of such refuges at such times,and so had by-and-bye come to dream of that retired and peacefullife as the one desirable thing to long for, anticipate, earn, andat last enjoy.
But I did not learn that any of these pilot-farmers had astonished anybodywith their successes
Their farms do not support them:  they supporttheir farms
The pilot-farmer disappears from the river annually,about the breaking of spring, and is seen no more till next frost.
Then he appears again, in damaged homespun, combs the hayseedout of his hair, and takes a pilot-house berth for the winter.
In this way he pays the debts which his farming has achieved duringthe agricultural season
So his river bondage is but half broken;he is still the river's slave the hardest half of the year.
One of these men bought a farm, but did not retire to it.
He knew a trick worth two of that
He did not propose to pauperizehis farm by applying his personal ignorance to working it.
No, he put the farm into the hands of an agriculturalexpert to be worked on shares--out of every three loadsof corn the expert to have two and the pilot the third.
But at the end of the season the pilot received no corn.
The expert explained that his share was not reached
The farmproduced only two loads.
Some of the pilots whom I had known had had adventures--the outcome fortunate, sometimes, but not in all cases.
Captain Montgomery, whom I had steered for when he was a pilot,commanded the Confederate fleet in the great battle before Memphis;when his vessel went down, he swam ashore, fought his way througha squad of soldiers, and made a gallant and narrow escape.
He was always a cool man; nothing could disturb his serenity.
Once when he was captain of the 'Crescent City,' I was bringingthe boat into port at New Orleans, and momently expecting ordersfrom the hurricane deck, but received none
I had stoppedthe wheels, and there my authority and responsibility ceased.
It was evening--dim twilight--the captain's hat was perched uponthe big bell, and I supposed the intellectual end of the captainwas in it, but such was not the case
The captain was very strict;therefore I knew better than to touch a bell without orders.
My duty was to hold the boat steadily on her calamitous course,and leave the consequences to take care of themselves--which I did.
So we went plowing past the sterns of steamboats and getting closerand closer--the crash was bound to come very soon--and still that hatnever budged; for alas, the captain was napping in the texas.
Things were becoming exceedingly nervous and uncomfortable.
It seemed to me that the captain was not going to appear in timeto see the entertainment
But he did
Just as we were walkinginto the stern of a steamboat, he stepped out on deck, and said,with heavenly serenity, 'Set her back on both'--which I did;but a trifle late, however, for the next moment we went smashing throughthat other boat's flimsy outer works with a most prodigious racket.
The captain never said a word to me about the matter afterwards,except to remark that I had done right, and that he hoped I would nothesitate to act in the same way again in like circumstances.
One of the pilots whom I had known when I was on the riverhad died a very honorable death
His boat caught fire,and he remained at the wheel until he got her safe to land.
Then he went out over the breast-board with his clothingin flames, and was the last person to get ashore.
He died from his injuries in the course of two or three hours,and his was the only life lost.
The history of Mississippi piloting affords six or seven instances of thissort of martyrdom, and half a hundred instances of escapes from a like fatewhich came within a second or two of being fatally too late; BUT THEREIS NO INSTANCE OF A PILOT DESERTING HIS POST TO SAVE HIS LIFE WHILE BYREMAINING AND SACRIFICING IT HE MIGHT SECURE OTHER LIVES FROM DESTRUCTION.
It is well worth while to set down this noble fact, and well worth while toput it in italics, too.
The 'cub' pilot is early admonished to despise all perilsconnected with a pilot's calling, and to prefer any sortof death to the deep dishonor of deserting his postwhile there is any possibility of his being useful in it.
And so effectively are these admonitions inculcated,that even young and but half-tried pilots can be depended uponto stick to the wheel, and die there when occasion requires.
In a Memphis graveyard is buried a young fellow who perishedat the wheel a great many years ago, in White River, to savethe lives of other men
He said to the captain that if the firewould give him time to reach a sand bar, some distance away,all could be saved, but that to land against the bluff bankof the river would be to insure the loss of many lives.
He reached the bar and grounded the boat in shallow water;but by that time the flames had closed around him,and in escaping through them he was fatally burned.
If I go, nobody will be saved; if I stay,no one will be lost but me
I will stay.'
There were two hundred persons on board, and no life was lost but the pilot's.
There used to be a monument to this young fellow, in that Memphis graveyard.
While we tarried in Memphis on our down trip, I started out to look for it,but our time was so brief that I was obliged to turn back before myobject was accomplished.
The tug-boat gossip informed me that Dick Kennet was dead--blown up, near Memphis, and killed; that several others whomI had known had fallen in the war--one or two of them shotdown at the wheel; that another and very particular friend,whom I had steered many trips for, had stepped out of his housein New Orleans, one night years ago, to collect some moneyin a remote part of the city, and had never been seen again--was murdered and thrown into the river, it was thought; that BenThornburgh was dead long ago; also his wild 'cub' whom I usedto quarrel with, all through every daylight watch
A heedless,reckless creature he was, and always in hot water, always in mischief.
An Arkansas passenger brought an enormous bear aboard, one day,and chained him to a life-boat on the hurricane deck.
Thornburgh's 'cub' could not rest till he had gone there and unchainedthe bear, to 'see what he would do.'
He was promptly gratified.
The bear chased him around and around the deck, for miles and miles,with two hundred eager faces grinning through the railingsfor audience, and finally snatched off the lad's coat-tailand went into the texas to chew it
The off-watch turnedout with alacrity, and left the bear in sole possession.
He presently grew lonesome, and started out for recreation.
He ranged the whole boat--visited every part of it, with anadvance guard of fleeing people in front of him and a voicelessvacancy behind him; and when his owner captured him at last,those two were the only visible beings anywhere; everybody elsewas in hiding, and the boat was a solitude.
I was told that one of my pilot friends fell dead at the wheel,from heart disease, in 1869
The captain was on the roof at the time.
He saw the boat breaking for the shore; shouted, and got no answer;ran up, and found the pilot lying dead on the floor.
Bixby had been blown up, in Madrid bend; was not injured,but the other pilot was lost.
George Ritchie had been blown up near Memphis--blown intothe river from the wheel, and disabled
The water wasvery cold; he clung to a cotton bale--mainly with his teeth--and floated until nearly exhausted, when he was rescuedby some deck hands who were on a piece of the wreck.
They tore open the bale and packed him in the cotton,and warmed the life back into him, and got him safe to Memphis.
He is one of Bixby's pilots on the 'Baton Rouge' now.
Into the life of a steamboat clerk, now dead, had dropped a bitof romance--somewhat grotesque romance, but romance nevertheless.
When I knew him he was a shiftless young spendthrift, boisterous,goodhearted, full of careless generosities, and pretty conspicuouslypromising to fool his possibilities away early, and come to nothing.
In a Western city lived a rich and childless old foreigner and his wife;and in their family was a comely young girl--sort of friend, sort of servant.
The young clerk of whom I have been speaking--whose name was notGeorge Johnson, but who shall be called George Johnson for the purposesof this narrative--got acquainted with this young girl, and they sinned;and the old foreigner found them out, and rebuked them
Being ashamed,they lied, and said they were married; that they had been privately married.
Then the old foreigner's hurt was healed, and he forgave and blessed them.
After that, they were able to continue their sin without concealment.
By-and-bye the foreigner's wife died; and presently he followed after her.
Friends of the family assembled to mourn; and among the mournerssat the two young sinners
The will was opened and solemnly read.
It bequeathed every penny of that old man's great wealth to MRS.
And there was no such person
The young sinners fled forth then,and did a very foolish thing:  married themselves before anobscure Justice of the Peace, and got him to antedate the thing.
That did no sort of good
The distant relatives flocked in and exposedthe fraudful date with extreme suddenness and surprising ease,and carried off the fortune, leaving the Johnsons very legitimately,and legally, and irrevocably chained together in honorable marriage,but with not so much as a penny to bless themselves withal.
Such are the actual facts; and not all novels have for a base sotelling a situation.
The 'Original Jacobs'
WE had some talk about Captain Isaiah Sellers, now many years dead.
He was a fine man, a high-minded man, and greatly respected both ashore and onthe river
He was very tall, well built, and handsome; and in his old age--as I remember him--his hair was as black as an Indian's, and his eyeand hand were as strong and steady and his nerve and judgment as firmand clear as anybody's, young or old, among the fraternity of pilots.
He was the patriarch of the craft; he had been a keelboat pilot before the dayof steamboats; and a steamboat pilot before any other steamboat pilot,still surviving at the time I speak of, had ever turned a wheel.
Consequently his brethren held him in the sort of awe in which illustrioussurvivors of a bygone age are always held by their associates.
He knew how he was regarded, and perhaps this fact added some trifleof stiffening to his natural dignity, which had been sufficiently stiffin its original state.
He left a diary behind him; but apparently it did not date backto his first steamboat trip, which was said to be 1811, the yearthe first steamboat disturbed the waters of the Mississippi.
It was duringhis stay on this boat that Captain Sellers introduced the tap of the bellas a signal to heave the lead, previous to which time it was the customfor the pilot to speak to the men below when soundings were wanted.
The proximity of the forecastle to the pilot-house, no doubt, rendered thisan easy matter; but how different on one of our palaces of the present day.
'In 1827 we find him on board the "President," a boat of twohundred and eighty-five tons burden, and plying between Smithlandand New Orleans
Thence he joined the "Jubilee" in 1828,and on this boat he did his first piloting in the St
Louis trade;his first watch extending from Herculaneum to St
Genevieve.
On May 26, 1836, he completed and left Pittsburgh in chargeof the steamer "Prairie," a boat of four hundred tons, and thefirst steamer with a STATE-ROOM CABIN ever seen at St
Louis.
In 1857 he introduced the signal for meeting boats, and which has,with some slight change, been the universal custom of this day;in fact, is rendered obligatory by act of Congress.
'As general items of river history, we quote the following marginalnotes from his general log--
'In March, 1825, Gen
Lafayette left New Orleans for St
In January, 1828, twenty-one steamers left the New Orleans wharfto celebrate the occasion of Gen
Jackson's visit to that city.
It has since been made in two days and ten hours.
In 1831 the Red River cut-off formed.
In 1832 steamer "Hudson" made the run from White Riverto Helena, a distance of seventy-five miles, in twelve hours.
This was the source of much talk and speculation amongparties directly interested.
In 1839 Great Horseshoe cut-off formed.
Up to the present time, a term of thirty-five years, we ascertain,by reference to the diary, he has made four hundred and sixty roundtrips to New Orleans, which gives a distance of one million one hundredand four thousand miles, or an average of eighty-six miles a day.'
Whenever Captain Sellers approached a body of gossiping pilots,a chill fell there, and talking ceased
For this reason:whenever six pilots were gathered together, there would alwaysbe one or two newly fledged ones in the lot, and the elderones would be always 'showing off' before these poor fellows;making them sorrowfully feel how callow they were, how recenttheir nobility, and how humble their degree, by talkinglargely and vaporously of old-time experiences on the river;always making it a point to date everything back as far as they could,so as to make the new men feel their newness to the sharpestdegree possible, and envy the old stagers in the like degree.
And how these complacent baldheads WOULD swell, and brag, and lie,and date back--ten, fifteen, twenty years,--and how they did enjoythe effect produced upon the marveling and envying youngsters!
And perhaps just at this happy stage of the proceedings,the stately figure of Captain Isaiah Sellers, that real and onlygenuine Son of Antiquity, would drift solemnly into the midst.
Imagine the size of the silence that would result on the instant.
And imagine the feelings of those bald-heads, and the exultationof their recent audience when the ancient captain would beginto drop casual and indifferent remarks of a reminiscent nature--about islands that had disappeared, and cutoffs that had been made,a generation before the oldest bald-head in the company had ever sethis foot in a pilot-house!
Many and many a time did this ancient mariner appear on the scenein the above fashion, and spread disaster and humiliation around him.
If one might believe the pilots, he always dated his islands back tothe misty dawn of river history; and he never used the same island twice;and never did he employ an island that still existed, or give onea name which anybody present was old enough to have heard of before.
If you might believe the pilots, he was always conscientiously particularabout little details; never spoke of 'the State of Mississippi,'for instance--no, he would say, 'When the State of Mississippi waswhere Arkansas now is," and would never speak of Louisiana or Missouriin a general way, and leave an incorrect impression on your mind--no, he would say, 'When Louisiana was up the river farther,' or 'WhenMissouri was on the Illinois side.'
The old gentleman was not of literary turn or capacity, but he used to jotdown brief paragraphs of plain practical information about the river,and sign them 'MARK TWAIN,' and give them to the 'New Orleans Picayune.'
They related to the stage and condition of the river, and wereaccurate and valuable; and thus far, they contained no poison.
My opinion for the benefit of the citizens of New Orleans:The water is higher this far up than it has been since 8.
My opinion is that the water will be feet deep in Canal streetbefore the first of next June
Turner's plantation atthe head of Big Black Island is all under water, and it has notbeen since 1815.
became the text for my first newspaper article
I burlesquedit broadly, very broadly, stringing my fantastics out to the extentof eight hundred or a thousand words
I was a 'cub' at the time.
I showed my performance to some pilots, and they eagerly rushed it intoprint in the 'New Orleans True Delta.'
It was a great pity; for it didnobody any worthy service, and it sent a pang deep into a good man's heart.
There was no malice in my rubbish; but it laughed at the captain.
It laughed at a man to whom such a thing was new and strange and dreadful.
I did not know then, though I do now, that there is no suffering comparablewith that which a private person feels when he is for the first timepilloried in print.
Captain Sellers did me the honor to profoundly detest me from that day forth.
When I say he did me the honor, I am not using empty words.
It was a very real honor to be in the thoughts of so great a man asCaptain Sellers, and I had wit enough to appreciate it and be proud of it.
It was distinction to be loved by such a man; but it was a much greaterdistinction to be hated by him, because he loved scores of people;but he didn't sit up nights to hate anybody but me.
He never printed another paragraph while he lived, and he never againsigned 'Mark Twain' to anything
At the time that the telegraphbrought the news of his death, I was on the Pacific coast.
I was a fresh new journalist, and needed a nom de guerre;so I confiscated the ancient mariner's discarded one,and have done my best to make it remain what it was in his hands--a sign and symbol and warrant that whatever is found in itscompany may be gambled on as being the petrified truth; how Ihave succeeded, it would not be modest in me to say.
The captain had an honorable pride in his professionand an abiding love for it
He ordered his monumentbefore he died, and kept it near him until he did die.
It is his image, in marble, standing on duty at the pilot wheel;and worthy to stand and confront criticism, for it represents a manwho in life would have stayed there till he burned to a cinder,if duty required it.
The finest thing we saw on our whole Mississippi trip, we saw as we approachedNew Orleans in the steam-tug
This was the curving frontage of the crescentcity lit up with the white glare of five miles of electric lights.
It was a wonderful sight, and very beautiful.
WE left for St
Louis in the 'City of Baton Rouge,' on a delightfullyhot day, but with the main purpose of my visit but lamely accomplished.
I had hoped to hunt up and talk with a hundred steamboatmen,but got so pleasantly involved in the social life of the town that Igot nothing more than mere five-minute talks with a couple of dozenof the craft.
I was on the bench of the pilot-house when we backed out and'straightened up' for the start--the boat pausing for a 'good ready,'in the old-fashioned way, and the black smoke piling out of the chimneysequally in the old-fashioned way
Then we began to gather momentum,and presently were fairly under way and booming along.
It was all as natural and familiar--and so were the shoreward sights--as if there had been no break in my river life
There was a 'cub,'and I judged that he would take the wheel now; and he did.
Captain Bixby stepped into the pilot-house
Presently the cubclosed up on the rank of steamships
He made me nervous,for he allowed too much water to show between our boat and the ships.
I knew quite well what was going to happen, because I could dateback in my own life and inspect the record
The captain looked on,during a silent half-minute, then took the wheel himself,and crowded the boat in, till she went scraping along withina band-breadth of the ships
It was exactly the favor which he haddone me, about a quarter of a century before, in that same spot,the first time I ever steamed out of the port of New Orleans.
It was a very great and sincere pleasure to me to see the thing repeated--with somebody else as victim.
We made Natchez (three hundred miles) in twenty-two hours and a half--much the swiftest passage I have ever made over that piece of water.
The next morning I came on with the four o'clock watch, and saw Ritchiesuccessfully run half a dozen crossings in a fog, using for hisguidance the marked chart devised and patented by Bixby and himself.
This sufficiently evidenced the great value of the chart.
By and by, when the fog began to clear off, I noticed that the reflectionof a tree in the smooth water of an overflowed bank, six hundredyards away, was stronger and blacker than the ghostly tree itself.
The faint spectral trees, dimly glimpsed through the shredding fog,were very pretty things to see.
We had a heavy thunder-storm at Natchez, another at Vicksburg,and still another about fifty miles below Memphis
They hadan old-fashioned energy which had long been unfamiliar to me.
This third storm was accompanied by a raging wind
We tied up to the bankwhen we saw the tempest coming, and everybody left the pilot-house but me.
The wind bent the young trees down, exposing the pale undersideof the leaves; and gust after gust followed, in quick succession,thrashing the branches violently up and down, and to this side and that,and creating swift waves of alternating green and white accordingto the side of the leaf that was exposed, and these waves racedafter each other as do their kind over a wind-tossed field of oats.
No color that was visible anywhere was quite natural--all tintswere charged with a leaden tinge from the solid cloud-bank overhead.
The river was leaden; all distances the same; and even the far-reachingranks of combing white-caps were dully shaded by the dark,rich atmosphere through which their swarming legions marched.
The thunder-peals were constant and deafening; explosion followed explosionwith but inconsequential intervals between, and the reports grew steadilysharper and higher-keyed, and more trying to the ear; the lightningwas as diligent as the thunder, and produced effects which enchantedthe eye and sent electric ecstasies of mixed delight and apprehensionshivering along every nerve in the body in unintermittent procession.
The rain poured down in amazing volume; the ear-splitting thunder-pealsbroke nearer and nearer; the wind increased in fury and began to wrenchoff boughs and tree-tops and send them sailing away through space;the pilot-house fell to rocking and straining and cracking and surging,and I went down in the hold to see what time it was.
People boast a good deal about Alpine thunderstorms;but the storms which I have had the luck to see in the Alps were notthe equals of some which I have seen in the Mississippi Valley.
I may not have seen the Alps do their best, of course,and if they can beat the Mississippi, I don't wish to.
On this up trip I saw a little towhead (infant island) half amile long, which had been formed during the past nineteen years.
Since there was so much time to spare that nineteen yearsof it could be devoted to the construction of a mere towhead,where was the use, originally, in rushing this whole globe throughin six days?
It is likely that if more time had been taken,in the first place, the world would have been made right, and thisceaseless improving and repairing would not be necessary now.
But if you hurry a world or a house, you are nearly sure to findout by and by that you have left out a towhead, or a broom-closet,or some other little convenience, here and there, which hasgot to be supplied, no matter how much expense and vexationit may cost.
We had a succession of black nights, going up the river, and it was observablethat whenever we landed, and suddenly inundated the trees with the intensesunburst of the electric light, a certain curious effect was always produced:hundreds of birds flocked instantly out from the masses of shininggreen foliage, and went careering hither and thither through the white rays,and often a song-bird tuned up and fell to singing
We judged thatthey mistook this superb artificial day for the genuine article.
We had a delightful trip in that thoroughly well-ordered steamer,and regretted that it was accomplished so speedily
By means of diligenceand activity, we managed to hunt out nearly all the old friends.
One was missing, however; he went to his reward, whatever it was,two years ago
But I found out all about him
His case helped meto realize how lasting can be the effect of a very trifling occurrence.
When he was an apprentice-blacksmith in our village, and I a schoolboy,a couple of young Englishmen came to the town and sojourned a while;and one day they got themselves up in cheap royal finery and didthe Richard III swordfight with maniac energy and prodigious powwow,in the presence of the village boys
This blacksmith cub was there,and the histrionic poison entered his bones
This vast, lumbering, ignorant,dull-witted lout was stage-struck, and irrecoverably
He disappeared,and presently turned up in St
I ran across him there, by and by.
He was standing musing on a street corner, with his left hand on his hip,the thumb of his right supporting his chin, face bowed and frowning,slouch hat pulled down over his forehead--imagining himself to be Othelloor some such character, and imagining that the passing crowd marked histragic bearing and were awestruck.
I joined him, and tried to get him down out of the clouds,but did not succeed
However, he casually informed me, presently,that he was a member of the Walnut Street theater company--and he tried to say it with indifference, but the indifferencewas thin, and a mighty exultation showed through it.
He said he was cast for a part in Julius Caesar, for that night,and if I should come I would see him
IF I should come!
I said I wouldn't miss it if I were dead.
I went away stupefied with astonishment, and saying to myself,'How strange it is!
WE always thought this fellow a fool;yet the moment he comes to a great city, where intelligenceand appreciation abound, the talent concealed in this shabbynapkin is at once discovered, and promptly welcomed and honored.'
But I came away from the theater that night disappointed and offended;for I had had no glimpse of my hero, and his name was not in the bills.
I met him on the street the next morning, and before I could speak, he asked--
'Did you see me?'
'No, you weren't there.'
He looked surprised and disappointed
I was one of them Roman soldiers.
I was the next to the last one
A half a year ago I used to alwaysbe the last one; but I've been promoted.'
Well, they told me that that poor fellow remained a Roman soldier to the last--a matter of thirty-four years
Sometimes they cast him for a 'speaking part,'but not an elaborate one
He could be trusted to go and say, 'My lord,the carriage waits,' but if they ventured to add a sentence or two to this,his memory felt the strain and he was likely to miss fire
Yet, poor devil,he had been patiently studying the part of Hamlet for more than thirty years,and he lived and died in the belief that some day he would be invitedto play it!
And this is what came of that fleeting visit of those youngEnglishmen to our village such ages and ages ago!
What noblehorseshoes this man might have made, but for those Englishmen;and what an inadequate Roman soldier he DID make!
But all in a flash I recognized him.
I made an effort to blush that strained every muscle in me,and answered as sweetly and winningly as ever I knew how--
'Been a little slow, but am just this minute closing in on the placewhere they keep it
Come in and help.'
He softened, and said make it a bottle of champagne and he was agreeable.
He said he had seen my name in the papers, and had put all his affairsaside and turned out, resolved to find me or die; and make me answerthat question satisfactorily, or kill me; though the most of his lateasperity had been rather counterfeit than otherwise.
This meeting brought back to me the St
Louis riots of aboutthirty years ago
I spent a week there, at that time,in a boarding-house, and had this young fellow for a neighboracross the hall
We saw some of the fightings and killings;and by and by we went one night to an armory where twohundred young men had met, upon call, to be armed and goforth against the rioters, under command of a military man.
We drilled till about ten o'clock at night; then news camethat the mob were in great force in the lower end of the town,and were sweeping everything before them
Our column moved at once.
It was a very hot night, and my musket was very heavy.
We marched and marched; and the nearer we approached the seatof war, the hotter I grew and the thirstier I got
I was behindmy friend; so, finally, I asked him to hold my musket while Idropped out and got a drink
Then I branched off and went home.
I was not feeling any solicitude about him of course,because I knew he was so well armed, now, that he could takecare of himself without any trouble
If I had had any doubtsabout that, I would have borrowed another musket for him.
I left the city pretty early the next morning, and if thisgrizzled man had not happened to encounter my name in the papersthe other day in St
Louis, and felt moved to seek me out,I should have carried to my grave a heart-torturing uncertaintyas to whether he ever got out of the riots all right or not.
I ought to have inquired, thirty years ago; I know that.
And I would have inquired, if I had had the muskets; but, in thecircumstances, he seemed better fixed to conduct the investigationsthan I was.
One Monday, near the time of our visit to St
Louis,the 'Globe-Democrat' came out with a couple of pages of Sundaystatistics, whereby it appeared that 119,448 St
Louis peopleattended the morning and evening church services the day before,and 23,102 children attended Sunday-school
Thus 142,550 persons,out of the city's total of 400,000 population, respected the dayreligious-wise
I found these statistics, in a condensed form,in a telegram of the Associated Press, and preserved them.
They made it apparent that St
Louis was in a higher stateof grace than she could have claimed to be in my time.
But now that I canvass the figures narrowly, I suspectthat the telegraph mutilated them
It cannot be that thereare more than 150,000 Catholics in the town; the other 250,000must be classified as Protestants
Out of these 250,000,according to this questionable telegram, only 26,362 attendedchurch and Sunday-school, while out of the 150,000 Catholics,116,188 went to church and Sunday-school.
A Burning Brand
ALL at once the thought came into my mind, 'I have not soughtout Mr
Upon that text I desire to depart from the direct line of my subject,and make a little excursion
I wish to reveal a secret which I havecarried with me nine years, and which has become burdensome.
Upon a certain occasion, nine years ago, I had said, with strong feeling,'If ever I see St
Louis again, I will seek out Mr Brown, the greatgrain merchant, and ask of him the privilege of shaking him by the hand.'
The occasion and the circumstances were as follows.
A friend of mine, a clergyman, came one evening and said--
'I have a most remarkable letter here, which I want to read to you,if I can do it without breaking down
I must preface it withsome explanations, however
The letter is written by an ex-thiefand ex-vagabond of the lowest origin and basest rearing, a manall stained with crime and steeped in ignorance; but, thank God,with a mine of pure gold hidden away in him, as you shall see.
His letter is written to a burglar named Williams, who is servinga nine-year term in a certain State prison, for burglary.
Williams was a particularly daring burglar, and pliedthat trade during a number of years; but he was caughtat last and jailed, to await trial in a town where he hadbroken into a house at night, pistol in hand, and forcedthe owner to hand over to him $8,000 in government bonds.
Williams was not a common sort of person, by any means; he wasa graduate of Harvard College, and came of good New England stock.
His father was a clergyman
While lying in jail, his healthbegan to fail, and he was threatened with consumption.
This fact, together with the opportunity for reflection affordedby solitary confinement, had its effect--its natural effect.
He fell into serious thought; his early training asserted itself withpower, and wrought with strong influence upon his mind and heart.
He put his old life behind him, and became an earnest Christian.
Some ladies in the town heard of this, visited him,and by their encouraging words supported him in his goodresolutions and strengthened him to continue in his new life.
The trial ended in his conviction and sentence to the Stateprison for the term of nine years, as I have before said.
In the prison he became acquainted with the poor wretchreferred to in the beginning of my talk, Jack Hunt,the writer of the letter which I am going to read.
You will see that the acquaintanceship bore fruit for Hunt.
When Hunt's time was out, he wandered to St
Louis;and from that place he wrote his letter to Williams.
The letter got no further than the office of the prison warden,of course; prisoners are not often allowed to receive lettersfrom outside
The prison authorities read this letter,but did not destroy it
They had not the heart to do it.
They read it to several persons, and eventually it fellinto the hands of those ladies of whom I spoke a while ago.
The other day I came across an old friend of mine--a clergyman--who had seen this letter, and was full of it.
The mere remembrance of it so moved him that he couldnot talk of it without his voice breaking
Send my letter to him.
Here was true eloquence; irresistible eloquence;and without a single grace or ornament to help it out.
I have seldom been so deeply stirred by any piece of writing.
The reader of it halted, all the way through, on a lame and broken voice;yet he had tried to fortify his feelings by several privatereadings of the letter before venturing into company with it.
He was practising upon me to see if there was any hope of hisbeing able to read the document to his prayer-meeting withanything like a decent command over his feelings
The resultwas not promising
However, he determined to risk it; and did.
He got through tolerably well; but his audience broke down early,and stayed in that condition to the end.
The fame of the letter spread through the town
A brotherminister came and borrowed the manuscript, put it bodily intoa sermon, preached the sermon to twelve hundred people on aSunday morning, and the letter drowned them in their own tears.
Then my friend put it into a sermon and went before his Sundaymorning congregation with it
It scored another triumph.
The house wept as one individual.
My friend went on summer vacation up into the fishing regionsof our northern British neighbors, and carried this sermonwith him, since he might possibly chance to need a sermon.
He was asked to preach, one day
The little church was full.
The marvelous letter did its wonted work;all the people were moved, all the people wept; the tearsflowed in a steady stream down Dr
If they had only been in Jericho,that letter would have rung through the world and stirred all the hearts ofall the nations for a thousand years to come, and nobody might ever have foundout that it was the confoundedest, brazenest, ingeniousest piece of fraudand humbuggery that was ever concocted to fool poor confiding mortals with!
The letter was a pure swindle, and that is the truth.
And take it by and large, it was without a compeer among swindles.
It was perfect, it was rounded, symmetrical, complete, colossal!
The reader learns it at this point; but we didn't learn ittill some miles and weeks beyond this stage of the affair.
My friend came back from the woods, and he and other clergymenand lay missionaries began once more to inundate audienceswith their tears and the tears of said audiences; I begged hardfor permission to print the letter in a magazine and tell the waterystory of its triumphs; numbers of people got copies of the letter,with permission to circulate them in writing, but not in print;copies were sent to the Sandwich Islands and other far regions.
Charles Dudley Warner was at church, one day, when the worn letter was readand wept over
At the church door, afterward, he dropped a peculiarly coldiceberg down the clergyman's back with the question--
'Do you know that letter to be genuine?'
It was the first suspicion that had ever been voiced;but it had that sickening effect which first-uttered suspicionsagainst one's idol always have
'Why--what should make you suspect that it isn't genuine?'
'Nothing that I know of, except that it is too neat, and compact, and fluent,and nicely put together for an ignorant person, an unpractised hand.
I think it was done by an educated man.'
The literary artist had detected the literary machinery.
If you will look at the letter now, you will detect it yourself--it is observable in every line.
Straightway the clergyman went off, with this seed of suspicionsprouting in him, and wrote to a minister residing in that townwhere Williams had been jailed and converted; asked for light;and also asked if a person in the literary line (meaning me)might be allowed to print the letter and tell its history.
The letter was sent to one of our ladies, who is a Sunday-school teacher,--sent either by Williams himself, or the chaplain of the State'sprison, probably
She has been greatly annoyed in having so much publicity,lest it might seem a breach of confidence, or be an injury to Williams.
In regard to its publication, I can give no permission; though if the namesand places were omitted, and especially if sent out of the country,I think you might take the responsibility and do it.
It is a wonderful letter, which no Christian genius, much lessone unsanctified, could ever have written
He has been sick and threatenedwith consumption, but I have not inquired after him lately.
This lady that I speak of corresponds with him, I presume,and will be quite sure to look after him.
Warner's low-down suspicionwas laid in the cold, cold grave, where it apparently belonged.
It was a suspicion based upon mere internal evidence, anyway;and when you come to internal evidence, it's a big field and a gamethat two can play at:  as witness this other internal evidence,discovered by the writer of the note above quoted, that 'itis a wonderful letter--which no Christian genius, much lessone unsanctified, could ever have written.'
I had permission now to print--provided I suppressed namesand places and sent my narrative out of the country.
So I chose an Australian magazine for vehicle, as being farenough out of the country, and set myself to work on my article.
And the ministers set the pumps going again, with the letter towork the handles.
But meantime Brother Page had been agitating.
He had not visited the penitentiary, but he had sent a copyof the illustrious letter to the chaplain of that institution,and accompanied it with--apparently inquiries
He got an answer,dated four days later than that other Brother's reassuring epistle;and before my article was complete, it wandered into my hands.
The original is before me, now, and I here append it.
I am afraid its genuineness cannot be established.
It purports to be addressed to some prisoner here
No such letterever came to a prisoner here
All letters received are carefullyread by officers of the prison before they go into the handsof the convicts, and any such letter could not be forgotten.
Again, Charles Williams is not a Christian man, but a dissolute,cunning prodigal, whose father is a minister of the gospel.
His name is an assumed one
I am glad to have made your acquaintance.
I am preparing a lecture upon life seen through prison bars,and should like to deliver the same in your vicinity.
And so ended that little drama
My poor article went into the fire;for whereas the materials for it were now more abundant andinfinitely richer than they had previously been, there were partiesall around me, who, although longing for the publication before,were a unit for suppression at this stage and complexion of the game.
They said:  'Wait--the wound is too fresh, yet.'
All the copiesof the famous letter except mine disappeared suddenly; and from thattime onward, the aforetime same old drought set in in the churches.
As a rule, the town was on a spacious grin for a while, but therewere places in it where the grin did not appear, and where it wasdangerous to refer to the ex-convict's letter.
A word of explanation
'Jack Hunt,' the professed writer of the letter,was an imaginary person
The burglar Williams--Harvard graduate,son of a minister--wrote the letter himself, to himself:  got it smuggledout of the prison; got it conveyed to persons who had supported andencouraged him in his conversion--where he knew two things would happen:the genuineness of the letter would not be doubted or inquired into;and the nub of it would be noticed, and would have valuable effect--the effect, indeed, of starting a movement to get Mr
Williams pardonedout of prison.
That 'nub' is so ingeniously, so casually, flung in, and immediatelyleft there in the tail of the letter, undwelt upon, that an indifferentreader would never suspect that it was the heart and core of the epistle,if he even took note of it at all, This is the 'nub'--
'i hope the warm weather is doing your lungs good--I WAS AFRAIDWHEN YOU WAS BLEEDING YOU WOULD DIE--give my respects,' etc.
That is all there is of it--simply touch and go--no dwelling upon it.
Nevertheless it was intended for an eye that would be swift to see it;and it was meant to move a kind heart to try to effect the liberation of apoor reformed and purified fellow lying in the fell grip of consumption.
When I for the first time heard that letter read, nine years ago,I felt that it was the most remarkable one I had ever encountered.
And it so warmed me toward Mr Brown of St
Louis that I said that if everI visited that city again, I would seek out that excellent man and kissthe hem of his garment if it was a new one
Well, I visited St
Louis,but I did not hunt for Mr Brown; for, alas!
the investigationsof long ago had proved that the benevolent Brown, like 'Jack Hunt,'was not a real person, but a sheer invention of that gifted rascal,Williams--burglar, Harvard graduate, son of a clergyman.
PaulPacket Company, and started up the river.
When I, as a boy, first saw the mouth of the Missouri River, it was twenty-twoor twenty-three miles above St
Louis, according to the estimate of pilots;the wear and tear of the banks have moved it down eight miles since then;and the pilots say that within five years the river will cut through andmove the mouth down five miles more, which will bring it within ten milesof St
About nightfall we passed the large and flourishing townof Alton, Illinois; and before daylight next morning the townof Louisiana, Missouri, a sleepy village in my day, but a briskrailway center now; however, all the towns out there arerailway centers now
I could not clearly recognize the place.
This seemed odd to me, for when I retired from the rebel armyin '61 I retired upon Louisiana in good order; at least in goodenough order for a person who had not yet learned how to retreataccording to the rules of war, and had to trust to native genius.
It seemed to me that for a first attempt at a retreat it wasnot badly done
I had done no advancing in all that campaignthat was at all equal to it.
There was a railway bridge across the river here well sprinkledwith glowing lights, and a very beautiful sight it was.
At seven in the morning we reached Hannibal, Missouri, where my boyhoodwas spent
I had had a glimpse of it fifteen years ago, and another glimpsesix years earlier, but both were so brief that they hardly counted.
The only notion of the town that remained in my mind was the memoryof it as I had known it when I first quitted it twenty-nine years ago.
That picture of it was still as clear and vivid to me as a photograph.
I stepped ashore with the feeling of one who returns out of adead-and-gone generation
I had a sort of realizing sense of whatthe Bastille prisoners must have felt when they used to come outand look upon Paris after years of captivity, and note how curiouslythe familiar and the strange were mixed together before them.
I saw the new houses--saw them plainly enough--but they did notaffect the older picture in my mind, for through their solid bricksand mortar I saw the vanished houses, which had formerly stood there,with perfect distinctness.
It was Sunday morning, and everybody was abed yet
So I passedthrough the vacant streets, still seeing the town as it was,and not as it is, and recognizing and metaphorically shakinghands with a hundred familiar objects which no longer exist;and finally climbed Holiday's Hill to get a comprehensive view.
The whole town lay spread out below me then, and I could mark and fixevery locality, every detail
Naturally, I was a good deal moved.
I said, 'Many of the people I once knew in this tranquil refuge of mychildhood are now in heaven; some, I trust, are in the other place.'
The things about me and before me made me feel like a boy again--convinced me that I was a boy again, and that I had simply beendreaming an unusually long dream; but my reflections spoiled all that;for they forced me to say, 'I see fifty old houses down yonder,into each of which I could enter and find either a man or a womanwho was a baby or unborn when I noticed those houses last, or agrandmother who was a plump young bride at that time.'
From this vantage ground the extensive view up and down the river,and wide over the wooded expanses of Illinois, is very beautiful--one of the most beautiful on the Mississippi, I think; which isa hazardous remark to make, for the eight hundred miles of riverbetween St
Louis and St
Paul afford an unbroken successionof lovely pictures
It may be that my affection for the one inquestion biases my judgment in its favor; I cannot say as to that.
No matter, it was satisfyingly beautiful to me, and it had thisadvantage over all the other friends whom I was about to greet again:it had suffered no change; it was as young and fresh and comely and graciousas ever it had been; whereas, the faces of the others would be old,and scarred with the campaigns of life, and marked with their griefsand defeats, and would give me no upliftings of spirit.
An old gentleman, out on an early morning walk, came along, and wediscussed the weather, and then drifted into other matters
I could notremember his face
He said he had been living here twenty-eight years.
So he had come after my time, and I had never seen him before.
I asked him various questions; first about a mate of mine in Sunday school--what became of him?
'He graduated with honor in an Eastern college, wandered off intothe world somewhere, succeeded at nothing, passed out of knowledgeand memory years ago, and is supposed to have gone to the dogs.'
'He was bright, and promised well when he was a boy.'
'Yes, but the thing that happened is what became of it all.'
I asked after another lad, altogether the brightest in our villageschool when I was a boy.
'He, too, was graduated with honors, from an Eastern college;but life whipped him in every battle, straight along, and he diedin one of the Territories, years ago, a defeated man.'
I asked after another of the bright boys.
'He is a success, always has been, always will be, I think.'
I inquired after a young fellow who came to the town to studyfor one of the professions when I was a boy.
'He went at something else before he got through--went from medicineto law, or from law to medicine--then to some other new thing;went away for a year, came back with a young wife; fell to drinking,then to gambling behind the door; finally took his wife and two youngchildren to her father's, and went off to Mexico; went from badto worse, and finally died there, without a cent to buy a shroud,and without a friend to attend the funeral.'
'Pity, for he was the best-natured, and most cheery and hopefulyoung fellow that ever was.'
I named another boy.
Oh, he is all right
Lives here yet; has a wife and children,and is prospering.'
Same verdict concerning other boys.
I named three school-girls.
'The first two live here, are married and have children;the other is long ago dead--never married.'
I named, with emotion, one of my early sweethearts.
She is all right
Been married three times; buried two husbands,divorced from the third, and I hear she is getting ready to marryan old fellow out in Colorado somewhere
She's got children scatteredaround here and there, most everywheres.'
The answer to several other inquiries was brief and simple--
'Killed in the war.'
I named another boy.
Well, now, his case is curious!
There wasn't a human beingin this town but knew that that boy was a perfect chucklehead;perfect dummy; just a stupid ass, as you may say.
Everybody knew it, and everybody said it
Well, if that veryboy isn't the first lawyer in the State of Missouri to-day,I'm a Democrat!'
'Is that so?'
It's actually so
I'm telling you the truth.
'How do you account for it?'
'Account for it?
There ain't any accounting for it,except that if you send a damned fool to St
Louis, and youdon't tell them he's a damned fool they'll never find it out.
There's one thing sure--if I had a damned fool I should knowwhat to do with him:  ship him to St
Louis--it's the noblestmarket in the world for that kind of property
Well, when youcome to look at it all around, and chew at it and think it over,don't it just bang anything you ever heard of?'
'Well, yes, it does seem to
But don't you think maybe itwas the Hannibal people who were mistaken about the boy,and not the St
'Oh, nonsense!
The people here have known him from the very cradle--they knew him a hundred times better than the St
Louis idiots couldhave known him
No, if you have got any damned fools that you wantto realize on, take my advice--send them to St
I mentioned a great number of people whom I had formerly known.
Some were dead, some were gone away, some had prospered,some had come to naught; but as regarded a dozen or so of the lot,the answer was comforting:
Died in the insane asylum three or four years ago--never was out of itfrom the time she went in; and was always suffering, too; never gota shred of her mind back.'
If he spoke the truth, here was a heavy tragedy, indeed.
Thirty-six years in a madhouse, that some young fools might have some fun!
I was a small boy, at the time; and I saw those giddy young ladies cometiptoeing into the room where Miss ---- sat reading at midnight by a lamp.
The girl at the head of the file wore a shroud and a doughface,she crept behind the victim, touched her on the shoulder,and she looked up and screamed, and then fell into convulsions.
She did not recover from the fright, but went mad
In these days itseems incredible that people believed in ghosts so short a time ago.
But they did.
After asking after such other folk as I could call to mind,I finally inquired about MYSELF:
Louis, he'd have succeeded sooner.'
It was with much satisfaction that I recognized the wisdomof having told this candid gentleman, in the beginning,that my name was Smith.
Past and Present
Being left to myself, up there, I went on picking out old houses in thedistant town, and calling back their former inmates out of the moldy past.
Among them I presently recognized the house of the father of Lem Hackett(fictitious name)
It carried me back more than a generation in a moment,and landed me in the midst of a time when the happenings of life were notthe natural and logical results of great general laws, but of special orders,and were freighted with very precise and distinct purposes--partly punitivein intent, partly admonitory; and usually local in application.
When I was a small boy, Lem Hackett was drowned--on a Sunday.
He fell out of an empty flat-boat, where he was playing.
Being loaded with sin, he went to the bottom like an anvil.
He was the only boy in the village who slept that night.
We others all lay awake, repenting
We had not needed the information,delivered from the pulpit that evening, that Lem's was a caseof special judgment--we knew that, already
There was a ferociousthunder-storm, that night, and it raged continuously until near dawn.
The winds blew, the windows rattled, the rain swept along the roofin pelting sheets, and at the briefest of intervals the inky blacknessof the night vanished, the houses over the way glared out whiteand blinding for a quivering instant, then the solid darkness shutdown again and a splitting peal of thunder followed, which seemedto rend everything in the neighborhood to shreds and splinters.
I sat up in bed quaking and shuddering, waiting for the destructionof the world, and expecting it
To me there was nothing strangeor incongruous in heaven's making such an uproar about Lem Hackett.
Apparently it was the right and proper thing to do.
Not a doubt entered my mind that all the angels were grouped together,discussing this boy's case and observing the awful bombardmentof our beggarly little village with satisfaction and approval.
There was one thing which disturbed me in the most serious way;that was the thought that this centering of the celestial intereston our village could not fail to attract the attention of the observersto people among us who might otherwise have escaped notice for years.
I felt that I was not only one of those people, but the very one mostlikely to be discovered
That discovery could have but one result:I should be in the fire with Lem before the chill of the riverhad been fairly warmed out of him
I knew that this would beonly just and fair
I was increasing the chances against myselfall the time, by feeling a secret bitterness against Lem for havingattracted this fatal attention to me, but I could not help it--this sinful thought persisted in infesting my breast in spite of me.
Every time the lightning glared I caught my breath, and judged I was gone.
In my terror and misery, I meanly began to suggest other boys,and mention acts of theirs which were wickeder than mine, and peculiarlyneeded punishment--and I tried to pretend to myself that I was simplydoing this in a casual way, and without intent to divert the heavenlyattention to them for the purpose of getting rid of it myself.
With deep sagacity I put these mentions into the form of sorrowingrecollections and left-handed sham-supplications that the sins of thoseboys might be allowed to pass unnoticed--'Possibly they may repent.'
'It is true that Jim Smith broke a window and lied about it--but maybe he did not mean any harm
And although Tom Holmessays more bad words than any other boy in the village,he probably intends to repent--though he has never said he would.
And whilst it is a fact that John Jones did fish a littleon Sunday, once, he didn't really catch anything but only just onesmall useless mud-cat; and maybe that wouldn't have been so awfulif he had thrown it back--as he says he did, but he didn't
Pitybut they would repent of these dreadful things--and maybe they willyet.'
But while I was shamefully trying to draw attention to these poor chaps--who were doubtless directing the celestial attention to me at the same moment,though I never once suspected that--I had heedlessly left my candle burning.
It was not a time to neglect even trifling precautions
There was no occasionto add anything to the facilities for attracting notice to me--so I putthe light out.
It was a long night to me, and perhaps the most distressful one I ever spent.
I endured agonies of remorse for sins which I knew I had committed,and for others which I was not certain about, yet was sure that they hadbeen set down against me in a book by an angel who was wiser than I and didnot trust such important matters to memory
It struck me, by and by,that I had been making a most foolish and calamitous mistake, in one respect:doubtless I had not only made my own destruction sure by directing attentionto those other boys, but had already accomplished theirs!
--Doubtless thelightning had stretched them all dead in their beds by this time!
The anguish and the fright which this thought gave me made my previoussufferings seem trifling by comparison.
Things had become truly serious
I resolved to turn overa new leaf instantly; I also resolved to connect myselfwith the church the next day, if I survived to see itssun appear
I resolved to cease from sin in all its forms,and to lead a high and blameless life for ever after.
I would be punctual at church and Sunday-school; visit the sick;carry baskets of victuals to the poor (simply to fulfilthe regulation conditions, although I knew we had none among usso poor but they would smash the basket over my head for my pains);I would instruct other boys in right ways, and take the resultingtrouncings meekly; I would subsist entirely on tracts;I would invade the rum shop and warn the drunkard--and finally,if I escaped the fate of those who early become too good to live,I would go for a missionary.
The storm subsided toward daybreak, and I dozed gradually to sleepwith a sense of obligation to Lem Hackett for going to eternal sufferingin that abrupt way, and thus preventing a far more dreadful disaster--my own loss.
But when I rose refreshed, by and by, and found that those other boyswere still alive, I had a dim sense that perhaps the whole thingwas a false alarm; that the entire turmoil had been on Lem's accountand nobody's else
The world looked so bright and safe that theredid not seem to be any real occasion to turn over a new leaf.
I was a little subdued, during that day, and perhaps the next;after that, my purpose of reforming slowly dropped out of my mind,and I had a peaceful, comfortable time again, until the next storm.
That storm came about three weeks later; and it was the mostunaccountable one, to me, that I had ever experienced;for on the afternoon of that day, 'Dutchy' was drowned.
Dutchy belonged to our Sunday-school
He was a Germanlad who did not know enough to come in out of the rain;but he was exasperatingly good, and had a prodigious memory.
One Sunday he made himself the envy of all the youth and the talkof all the admiring village, by reciting three thousand verses ofScripture without missing a word; then he went off the very next dayand got drowned.
Circumstances gave to his death a peculiar impressiveness.
We were all bathing in a muddy creek which had a deep holein it, and in this hole the coopers had sunk a pile of greenhickory hoop poles to soak, some twelve feet under water.
We were diving and 'seeing who could stay under longest.'
We managed to remain down by holding on to the hoop poles.
Dutchy made such a poor success of it that he was hailed withlaughter and derision every time his head appeared above water.
At last he seemed hurt with the taunts, and begged usto stand still on the bank and be fair with him and give himan honest count--'be friendly and kind just this once, and notmiscount for the sake of having the fun of laughing at him.'
Treacherous winks were exchanged, and all said 'All right, Dutchy--go ahead, we'll play fair.'
Dutchy plunged in, but the boys, instead of beginning to count,followed the lead of one of their number and scamperedto a range of blackberry bushes close by and hid behind it.
They imagined Dutchy's humiliation, when he should rise aftera superhuman effort and find the place silent and vacant,nobody there to applaud
They were 'so full of laugh' with the idea,that they were continually exploding into muffled cackles.
Time swept on, and presently one who was peeping through the briers,said, with surprise--
'Why, he hasn't come up, yet!'
The laughing stopped.
'Boys, it 's a splendid dive,' said one.
'Never mind that,' said another, 'the joke on him is all the better for it.'
There was a remark or two more, and then a pause.
Talking ceased, and all began to peer through the vines.
Before long, the boys' faces began to look uneasy, then anxious,then terrified
Still there was no movement of the placid water.
Hearts began to beat fast, and faces to turn pale.
We all glided out, silently, and stood on the bank, our horrifiedeyes wandering back and forth from each other's countenancesto the water.
'Somebody must go down and see!'
Yes, that was plain; but nobody wanted that grisly task.
So we did--with hands which shook so, that we hardly knewwhat we were about
The lot fell to me, and I went down.
The water was so muddy I could not see anything, but I felt aroundamong the hoop poles, and presently grasped a limp wrist whichgave me no response--and if it had I should not have known it,I let it go with such a frightened suddenness.
The boy had been caught among the hoop poles and entangledthere, helplessly
I fled to the surface and told the awful news.
Some of us knew that if the boy were dragged out at once he mightpossibly be resuscitated, but we never thought of that
We did notthink of anything; we did not know what to do, so we did nothing--except that the smaller lads cried, piteously, and we all struggledfrantically into our clothes, putting on anybody's that came handy,and getting them wrong-side-out and upside-down, as a rule.
Then we scurried away and gave the alarm, but none of us went back to seethe end of the tragedy
We had a more important thing to attend to:we all flew home, and lost not a moment in getting ready to leada better life.
The night presently closed down
Then came on that tremendousand utterly unaccountable storm
I was perfectly dazed; I couldnot understand it
It seemed to me that there must be some mistake.
The elements were turned loose, and they rattled and banged and blazedaway in the most blind and frantic manner
All heart and hope wentout of me, and the dismal thought kept floating through my brain,'If a boy who knows three thousand verses by heart is not satisfactory,what chance is there for anybody else?'
Of course I never questioned for a moment that the storm wason Dutchy's account, or that he or any other inconsequentialanimal was worthy of such a majestic demonstration from on high;the lesson of it was the only thing that troubled me;for it convinced me that if Dutchy, with all his perfections,was not a delight, it would be vain for me to turn over a new leaf,for I must infallibly fall hopelessly short of that boy,no matter how hard I might try
Nevertheless I did turn it over--a highly educated fear compelled me to do that--but succeedingdays of cheerfulness and sunshine came bothering around,and within a month I had so drifted backward that again Iwas as lost and comfortable as ever.
Breakfast time approached while I mused these musings and calledthese ancient happenings back to mind; so I got me back intothe present and went down the hill.
On my way through town to the hotel, I saw the house which wasmy home when I was a boy
At present rates, the people who nowoccupy it are of no more value than I am; but in my time theywould have been worth not less than five hundred dollars apiece.
They are colored folk.
After breakfast, I went out alone again, intending to hunt up someof the Sunday-schools and see how this generation of pupils mightcompare with their progenitors who had sat with me in those placesand had probably taken me as a model--though I do not rememberas to that now
By the public square there had been in my daya shabby little brick church called the 'Old Ship of Zion,'which I had attended as a Sunday-school scholar; and I foundthe locality easily enough, but not the old church; it was gone,and a trig and rather hilarious new edifice was in its place.
The pupils were better dressed and better looking than were thoseof my time; consequently they did not resemble their ancestors;and consequently there was nothing familiar to me in their faces.
Still, I contemplated them with a deep interest and a yearning wistfulness,and if I had been a girl I would have cried; for they were the offspring,and represented, and occupied the places, of boys and girls someof whom I had loved to love, and some of whom I had loved to hate,but all of whom were dear to me for the one reason or the other,so many years gone by--and, Lord, where be they now!
I was mightily stirred, and would have been grateful to be allowedto remain unmolested and look my fill; but a bald-summited superintendentwho had been a tow-headed Sunday-school mate of mine on that spotin the early ages, recognized me, and I talked a flutter of wildnonsense to those children to hide the thoughts which were in me,and which could not have been spoken without a betrayal of feelingthat would have been recognized as out of character with me.
Making speeches without preparation is no gift of mine;and I was resolved to shirk any new opportunity, but inthe next and larger Sunday-school I found myself in the rearof the assemblage; so I was very willing to go on the platforma moment for the sake of getting a good look at the scholars.
On the spur of the moment I could not recall any of the old idiotictalks which visitors used to insult me with when I was a pupil there;and I was sorry for this, since it would have given me timeand excuse to dawdle there and take a long and satisfying lookat what I feel at liberty to say was an array of fresh youngcomeliness not matchable in another Sunday-school of the same size.
As I talked merely to get a chance to inspect; and as I strungout the random rubbish solely to prolong the inspection,I judged it but decent to confess these low motives,and I did so.
If the Model Boy was in either of these Sunday-schools, I did not see him.
The Model Boy of my time--we never had but the one--was perfect:perfect in manners, perfect in dress, perfect in conduct, perfect infilial piety, perfect in exterior godliness; but at bottom he was aprig; and as for the contents of his skull, they could have changedplace with the contents of a pie and nobody would have been the worse offfor it but the pie
This fellow's reproachlessness was a standingreproach to every lad in the village
He was the admiration of all themothers, and the detestation of all their sons
I was told what becameof him, but as it was a disappointment to me, I will not enter intodetails
He succeeded in life.
A Vendetta and Other Things
DURING my three days' stay in the town, I woke up every morningwith the impression that I was a boy--for in my dreams the faceswere all young again, and looked as they had looked in the old times--but I went to bed a hundred years old, every night--for meantime Ihad been seeing those faces as they are now.
Of course I suffered some surprises, along at first,before I had become adjusted to the changed state of things.
I met young ladies who did not seem to have changed at all;but they turned out to be the daughters of the young ladiesI had in mind--sometimes their grand-daughters
When youare told that a stranger of fifty is a grandmother, there isnothing surprising about it; but if, on the contrary, she isa person whom you knew as a little girl, it seems impossible.
You say to yourself, 'How can a little girl be a grandmother.'
It takes some little time to accept and realize the fact that while youhave been growing old, your friends have not been standing still,in that matter.
I noticed that the greatest changes observable were with the women,not the men
I saw men whom thirty years had changed but slightly;but their wives had grown old
These were good women; it is very wearingto be good.
There was a saddler whom I wished to see; but he was gone.
Dead, these many years, they said
Once or twice a day,the saddler used to go tearing down the street, putting on hiscoat as he went; and then everybody knew a steamboat was coming.
Everybody knew, also, that John Stavely was not expecting anybodyby the boat--or any freight, either; and Stavely must have knownthat everybody knew this, still it made no difference to him;he liked to seem to himself to be expecting a hundred thousandtons of saddles by this boat, and so he went on all his life,enjoying being faithfully on hand to receive and receiptfor those saddles, in case by any miracle they should come.
A malicious Quincy paper used always to refer to this town, in derisionas 'Stavely's Landing.'
Stavely was one of my earliest admirations;I envied him his rush of imaginary business, and the displayhe was able to make of it, before strangers, as he went flyingdown the street struggling with his fluttering coat.
But there was a carpenter who was my chiefest hero
He was a mighty liar,but I did not know that; I believed everything he said
He was a romantic,sentimental, melodramatic fraud, and his bearing impressed me with awe.
I vividly remember the first time he took me into his confidence
He wasplaning a board, and every now and then he would pause and heave a deep sigh;and occasionally mutter broken sentences--confused and not intelligible--but out of their midst an ejaculation sometimes escaped which made me shiverand did me good:  one was, 'O God, it is his blood!'
I sat on the tool-chestand humbly and shudderingly admired him; for I judged he was full of crime.
I eagerly said I could.
'A dark and dreadful one?'
I satisfied him on that point.
He cautioned me once more to be 'as silent as the grave;'then he told me he was a 'red-handed murderer.'
The effect which this had upon me was an inspiration to him,and he turned himself loose upon his subject with interest and energy.
He left generalizing, and went into details,--began with his first murder;described it, told what measures he had taken to avert suspicion;then passed to his second homicide, his third, his fourth, and so on.
He had always done his murders with a bowie-knife, and he made all myhairs rise by suddenly snatching it out and showing it to me.
At the end of this first seance I went home with six of hisfearful secrets among my freightage, and found them a greathelp to my dreams, which had been sluggish for a while back.
I sought him again and again, on my Saturday holidays; in fact Ispent the summer with him--all of it which was valuable to me.
His fascinations never diminished, for he threw something freshand stirring, in the way of horror, into each successive murder.
He always gave names, dates, places--everything
This by and by enabledme to note two things:  that he had killed his victims in everyquarter of the globe, and that these victims were always named Lynch.
The destruction of the Lynches went serenely on, Saturday after Saturday,until the original thirty had multiplied to sixty--and more to beheard from yet; then my curiosity got the better of my timidity,and I asked how it happened that these justly punished persons all borethe same name.
My hero said he had never divulged that dark secret to anyliving being; but felt that he could trust me, and thereforehe would lay bare before me the story of his sad and blighted life.
He had loved one 'too fair for earth,' and she had reciprocated'with all the sweet affection of her pure and noble nature.'
But he had a rival, a 'base hireling' named Archibald Lynch,who said the girl should be his, or he would 'dye his handsin her heart's best blood.'
The carpenter, 'innocent andhappy in love's young dream,' gave no weight to the threat,but led his 'golden-haired darling to the altar,' and there,the two were made one; there also, just as the minister's handswere stretched in blessing over their heads, the fell deed was done--with a knife--and the bride fell a corpse at her husband's feet.
And what did the husband do?
He plucked forth that knife,and kneeling by the body of his lost one, swore to 'consecratehis life to the extermination of all the human scum that bearthe hated name of Lynch.'
That was it
He had been hunting down the Lynches and slaughtering them,from that day to this--twenty years
He had always used that sameconsecrated knife; with it he had murdered his long array of Lynches,and with it he had left upon the forehead of each victim a peculiar mark--a cross, deeply incised
The cross of the Mysterious Avenger is known in Europe, in America,in China, in Siam, in the Tropics, in the Polar Seas, in the deserts of Asia,in all the earth
Wherever in the uttermost parts of the globe, a Lynchhas penetrated, there has the Mysterious Cross been seen, and those whohave seen it have shuddered and said, "It is his mark, he has been here.
Be silent, and wait
Some morning this town will flock aghast to viewa gory corpse; on its brow will be seen the awful sign, and men will trembleand whisper, "He has been here--it is the Mysterious Avenger's mark!
This ass had been reading the 'Jibbenainosay,' no doubt,and had had his poor romantic head turned by it; but as I hadnot yet seen the book then, I took his inventions for truth,and did not suspect that he was a plagiarist.
However, we had a Lynch living in the town; and the more Ireflected upon his impending doom, the more I could not sleep.
It seemed my plain duty to save him, and a still plainerand more important duty to get some sleep for myself,so at last I ventured to go to Mr
Lynch and tell himwhat was about to happen to him--under strict secrecy.
I advised him to 'fly,' and certainly expected him to do it.
But he laughed at me; and he did not stop there; he led medown to the carpenter's shop, gave the carpenter a jeering andscornful lecture upon his silly pretensions, slapped his face,made him get down on his knees and beg--then went off andleft me to contemplate the cheap and pitiful ruin of what,in my eyes, had so lately been a majestic and incomparable hero.
The carpenter blustered, flourished his knife, and doomed thisLynch in his usual volcanic style, the size of his fatefulwords undiminished; but it was all wasted upon me; he was a heroto me no longer, but only a poor, foolish, exposed humbug.
I was ashamed of him, and ashamed of myself; I took no furtherinterest in him, and never went to his shop any more
He was aheavy loss to me, for he was the greatest hero I had ever known.
The fellow must have had some talent; for some of his imaginarymurders were so vividly and dramatically described that I remember alltheir details yet.
The people of Hannibal are not more changed than is the town.
It is no longer a village; it is a city, with a mayor, and a council,and water-works, and probably a debt
It has fifteen thousand people,is a thriving and energetic place, and is paved like the restof the west and south--where a well-paved street and a good sidewalkare things so seldom seen, that one doubts them when he does see them.
The customary half-dozen railways center in Hannibal now,and there is a new depot which cost a hundred thousand dollars.
In my time the town had no specialty, and no commercial grandeur;the daily packet usually landed a passenger and bought a catfish,and took away another passenger and a hatful of freight; but now a hugecommerce in lumber has grown up and a large miscellaneous commerceis one of the results
A deal of money changes hands there now.
Bear Creek--so called, perhaps, because it was always so particularlybare of bears--is hidden out of sight now, under islands andcontinents of piled lumber, and nobody but an expert can find it.
I used to get drowned in it every summer regularly, and bedrained out, and inflated and set going again by some chance enemy;but not enough of it is unoccupied now to drown a person in.
It was a famous breeder of chills and fever in its day.
I remember one summer when everybody in town had thisdisease at once
Many chimneys were shaken down, and allthe houses were so racked that the town had to be rebuilt.
The chasm or gorge between Lover's Leap and the hill west of itis supposed by scientists to have been caused by glacial action.
This is a mistake.
There is an interesting cave a mile or two below Hannibal, among the bluffs.
I would have liked to revisit it, but had not time
In my time the personwho then owned it turned it into a mausoleum for his daughter, aged fourteen.
The body of this poor child was put into a copper cylinder filled withalcohol, and this was suspended in one of the dismal avenues of the cave.
The top of the cylinder was removable; and it was said to be a common thingfor the baser order of tourists to drag the dead face into view and examine itand comment upon it.
A Question of Law
THE slaughter-house is gone from the mouth of Bear Creek and so isthe small jail (or 'calaboose') which once stood in its neighborhood.
A citizen asked, 'Do you remember when Jimmy Finn, the town drunkard,was burned to death in the calaboose?'
Observe, now, how history becomes defiled, through lapse of timeand the help of the bad memories of men
Jimmy Finn was notburned in the calaboose, but died a natural death in a tan vat,of a combination of delirium tremens and spontaneous combustion.
When I say natural death, I mean it was a natural death forJimmy Finn to die
The calaboose victim was not a citizen;he was a poor stranger, a harmless whiskey-sodden tramp.
I know more about his case than anybody else; I knew too much of it,in that bygone day, to relish speaking of it
That tramp was wanderingabout the streets one chilly evening, with a pipe in his mouth,and begging for a match; he got neither matches nor courtesy;on the contrary, a troop of bad little boys followed himaround and amused themselves with nagging and annoying him.
I assisted; but at last, some appeal which the wayfarer madefor forbearance, accompanying it with a pathetic reference to hisforlorn and friendless condition, touched such sense of shameand remnant of right feeling as were left in me, and I went awayand got him some matches, and then hied me home and to bed,heavily weighted as to conscience, and unbuoyant in spirit.
An hour or two afterward, the man was arrested and locked upin the calaboose by the marshal--large name for a constable,but that was his title
At two in the morning, the church bells rangfor fire, and everybody turned out, of course--I with the rest.
The tramp had used his matches disastrously:  he had set his strawbed on fire, and the oaken sheathing of the room had caught.
When I reached the ground, two hundred men, women, and childrenstood massed together, transfixed with horror, and staringat the grated windows of the jail
Behind the iron bars,and tugging frantically at them, and screaming for help,stood the tramp; he seemed like a black object set againsta sun, so white and intense was the light at his back.
That marshal could not be found, and he had the only key.
A battering-ram was quickly improvised, and the thunder of itsblows upon the door had so encouraging a sound that the spectatorsbroke into wild cheering, and believed the merciful battle won.
But it was not so
The timbers were too strong; they did not yield.
It was said that the man's death-grip still held fast to the barsafter he was dead; and that in this position the fires wrapped himabout and consumed him
As to this, I do not know
What was seenafter I recognized the face that was pleading through the barswas seen by others, not by me.
I saw that face, so situated, every night for a long time afterward;and I believed myself as guilty of the man's death as if I had givenhim the matches purposely that he might burn himself up with them.
I had not a doubt that I should be hanged if my connection withthis tragedy were found out
The happenings and the impressionsof that time are burnt into my memory, and the study of thementertains me as much now as they themselves distressed me then.
If anybody spoke of that grisly matter, I was all ears in a moment,and alert to hear what might be said, for I was always dreadingand expecting to find out that I was suspected; and so fineand so delicate was the perception of my guilty conscience,that it often detected suspicion in the most purposeless remarks,and in looks, gestures, glances of the eye which had no significance,but which sent me shivering away in a panic of fright, just the same.
And how sick it made me when somebody dropped, howsoever carelesslyand barren of intent, the remark that 'murder will out!'
For a boy of ten years, I was carrying a pretty weighty cargo.
All this time I was blessedly forgetting one thing--the fact that I was an inveterate talker in my sleep.
But one night I awoke and found my bed-mate--my younger brother--sitting up in bed and contemplating me by the light of the moon.
I think you are sick or crazy or something
But anyway,you're awake, and I'll get to sleep while I've got a chance.'
He fell asleep and I lay there in a cold sweat, turning thisnew terror over in the whirling chaos which did duty as my mind.
The burden of my thought was, How much did I divulge?
How much does he know?
But by and by I evolved an idea--I would wake my brother and probe himwith a supposititious case
I shook him up, and said--
'Suppose a man should come to you drunk--'
'This is foolish--I never get drunk.'
I don't mean you, idiot--I mean the man
Suppose a MANshould come to you drunk, and borrow a knife, or a tomahawk,or a pistol, and you forgot to tell him it was loaded, and--'
'How could you load a tomahawk?'
I don't mean the tomahawk, and I didn't say the tomahawk; I said the pistol.
Now don't you keep breaking in that way, because this is serious.
I don't mean HIS act, I mean yours:  would you be a murdererfor letting him have that pistol?'
This made me very uncomfortable
However, it was not a decisive verdict.
I should have to set out the real case--there seemed to be no other way.
But I would do it cautiously, and keep a watch out for suspicious effects.
Do you know how the man came to be burned up in the calaboose?'
'Haven't you the least idea?'
'Not the least.'
'Wish you may die in your tracks if you have?'
'Yes, wish I may die in my tracks.'
Well, the way of it was this
The man wanted some matches to lighthis pipe
A boy got him some
The man set fire to the calaboosewith those very matches, and burnt himself up.'
'Is that so?'
Yes, it is
Now, is that boy a murderer, do you think?'
Let me see
The man was drunk?'
'Yes, he was drunk.'
'And the boy knew it?'
'Yes, he knew it.'
There was a long pause
This is certain.'
Faint, sickening sensations crept along all the fibers of my body,and I seemed to know how a person feels who hears his death sentencepronounced from the bench
I waited to hear what my brother would say next.
I believed I knew what it would be, and I was right
'I know the boy.'
I had nothing to say; so I said nothing
I simply shuddered.
I came out of my collapse as one who rises from the dead.
'You told it in your sleep.'
I said to myself, 'How splendid that is!
'Are you going to give him up to the law?'
'No,' I said; 'I believe that this will be a lesson to him.
I shall keep an eye on him, of course, for that is but right;but if he stops where he is and reforms, it shall never be said thatI betrayed him.'
'How good you are!'
'Well, I try to be
It is all a person can do in a world like this.'
And now, my burden being shifted to other shoulders, my terrorssoon faded away.
The day before we left Hannibal, a curious thing fell under my notice--the surprising spread which longitudinal time undergoes there.
, and drive me out.
But he missed it considerably--did not arrive till ten
He excusedhimself by saying--
'De time is mos' an hour en a half slower in de country enwhat it is in de town; you'll be in plenty time, boss.
Sometimes we shoves out early for church, Sunday, en fetches updah right plum in de middle er de sermon
Diffunce in de time.
A body can't make no calculations 'bout it.'
I had lost two hours and a half; but I had learned a fact worth four.
Louis northward there are all the enlivening signs ofthe presence of active, energetic, intelligent, prosperous, practicalnineteenth-century populations
The people don't dream, they work.
The happy result is manifest all around in the substantial outsideaspect of things, and the suggestions of wholesome life and comfortthat everywhere appear.
Quincy is a notable example--a brisk, handsome, well-ordered city;and now, as formerly, interested in art, letters, and other high things.
But Marion City is an exception
Marion City has gone backwardsin a most unaccountable way
This metropolis promisedso well that the projectors tacked 'city' to its name in thevery beginning, with full confidence; but it was bad prophecy.
When I first saw Marion City, thirty-five years ago,it contained one street, and nearly or quite six houses.
It contains but one house now, and this one, in a state of ruin,is getting ready to follow the former five into the river.
Doubtless Marion City was too near to Quincy
It hadanother disadvantage:  it was situated in a flat mud bottom,below high-water mark, whereas Quincy stands high up on the slopeof a hill.
In the beginning Quincy had the aspect and ways of a model New England town:and these she has yet:  broad, clean streets, trim, neat dwellingsand lawns, fine mansions, stately blocks of commercial buildings.
And there are ample fair-grounds, a well kept park, and manyattractive drives; library, reading-rooms, a couple of colleges,some handsome and costly churches, and a grand court-house, with groundswhich occupy a square
The population of the city is thirty thousand.
There are some large factories here, and manufacturing, of many sorts,is done on a great scale.
La Grange and Canton are growing towns, but I missed Alexandria;was told it was under water, but would come up to blow in the summer.
Keokuk was easily recognizable
I lived there in 1857--an extraordinaryyear there in real-estate matters
The 'boom' was something wonderful.
Everybody bought, everybody sold--except widows and preachers;they always hold on; and when the tide ebbs, they get left.
Anything in the semblance of a town lot, no matter how situated,was salable, and at a figure which would still have been high if the groundhad been sodded with greenbacks.
The town has a population of fifteen thousand now, and is progressing witha healthy growth
It was night, and we could not see details, for which wewere sorry, for Keokuk has the reputation of being a beautiful city.
It was a pleasant one to live in long ago, and doubtless has advanced,not retrograded, in that respect.
A mighty work which was in progress there in my day is finished now.
This is the canal over the Rapids
It is eight miles long,three hundred feet wide, and is in no place less than six feet deep.
Its masonry is of the majestic kind which the War Departmentusually deals in, and will endure like a Roman aqueduct.
The work cost four or five millions.
After an hour or two spent with former friends, we started upthe river again
Keokuk, a long time ago, was an occasionalloafing-place of that erratic genius, Henry Clay Dean.
I believe I never saw him but once; but he was much talked ofwhen I lived there
This is what was said of him--
He began life poor and without education
But he educated himself--on the curbstones of Keokuk
He would sit down on a curbstonewith his book, careless or unconscious of the clatter of commerceand the tramp of the passing crowds, and bury himself in hisstudies by the hour, never changing his position except to drawin his knees now and then to let a dray pass unobstructed;and when his book was finished, its contents, however abstruse,had been burnt into his memory, and were his permanent possession.
In this way he acquired a vast hoard of all sorts of learning,and had it pigeon-holed in his head where he could put his intellectualhand on it whenever it was wanted.
His clothes differed in no respect from a 'wharf-rat's,' except thatthey were raggeder, more ill-assorted and inharmonious (and thereforemore extravagantly picturesque), and several layers dirtier.
Nobody could infer the master-mind in the top of that edifice fromthe edifice itself.
He was an orator--by nature in the first place, and later by the trainingof experience and practice
When he was out on a canvass, his name wasa lodestone which drew the farmers to his stump from fifty miles around.
His theme was always politics
He used no notes, for a volcano doesnot need notes
After the building had been packed to its utmost capacity withsweltering folk of both sexes, the stage still remained vacant--the distinguished stranger had failed to connect.
The crowd grew impatient, and by and by indignant and rebellious.
About this time a distressed manager discovered Dean on a curb-stone,explained the dilemma to him, took his book away from him,rushed him into the building the back way, and told him to makefor the stage and save his country.
Presently a sudden silence fell upon the grumbling audience, and everybody'seyes sought a single point--the wide, empty, carpetless stage
A figureappeared there whose aspect was familiar to hardly a dozen persons present.
It was the scarecrow Dean--in foxy shoes, down at the heels; socks ofodd colors, also 'down;' damaged trousers, relics of antiquity, and a worldtoo short, exposing some inches of naked ankle; an unbuttoned vest,also too short, and exposing a zone of soiled and wrinkled linenbetween it and the waistband; shirt bosom open; long black handkerchief,wound round and round the neck like a bandage; bob-tailed blue coat,reaching down to the small of the back, with sleeves which left fourinches of forearm unprotected; small, stiff-brimmed soldier-cap hung ona corner of the bump of--whichever bump it was
This figure moved gravelyout upon the stage and, with sedate and measured step, down to the front,where it paused, and dreamily inspected the house, saying no word.
The silence of surprise held its own for a moment, then was broken by a justaudible ripple of merriment which swept the sea of faces like the washof a wave
The figure remained as before, thoughtfully inspecting.
Another wave started--laughter, this time
It was followed by another,then a third--this last one boisterous.
And now the stranger stepped back one pace, took off his soldier-cap,tossed it into the wing, and began to speak, with deliberation,nobody listening, everybody laughing and whispering.
The speaker talked on unembarrassed, and presently delivereda shot which went home, and silence and attention resulted.
He followed it quick and fast, with other telling things; warmed tohis work and began to pour his words out, instead of dripping them;grew hotter and hotter, and fell to discharging lightningsand thunder--and now the house began to break into applause,to which the speaker gave no heed, but went hammering straight on;unwound his black bandage and cast it away, still thundering;presently discarded the bob tailed coat and flung it aside,firing up higher and higher all the time; finally flung the vestafter the coat; and then for an untimed period stood there,like another Vesuvius, spouting smoke and flame, lava and ashes,raining pumice-stone and cinders, shaking the moral earth withintellectual crash upon crash, explosion upon explosion, while the madmultitude stood upon their feet in a solid body, answering backwith a ceaseless hurricane of cheers, through a thrashing snowstormof waving handkerchiefs.
'When Dean came,' said Claggett, 'the people thoughthe was an escaped lunatic; but when he went, they thoughthe was an escaped archangel.'
Burlington, home of the sparkling Burdette, is another hill city;and also a beautiful one; unquestionably so; a fine and flourishing city,with a population of twenty-five thousand, and belted with busy factoriesof nearly every imaginable description
It was a very sober city, too--for the moment--for a most sobering bill was pending; a bill to forbidthe manufacture, exportation, importation, purchase, sale, borrowing,lending, stealing, drinking, smelling, or possession, by conquest,inheritance, intent, accident, or otherwise, in the State of Iowa, of eachand every deleterious beverage known to the human race, except water.
This measure was approved by all the rational people in the State;but not by the bench of Judges.
Burlington has the progressive modern city's full equipment of devicesfor right and intelligent government; including a paid fire department,a thing which the great city of New Orleans is without, but still employsthat relic of antiquity, the independent system.
In Burlington, as in all these Upper-River towns, one breathesa go-ahead atmosphere which tastes good in the nostrils.
An opera-house has lately been built there which is in strongcontrast with the shabby dens which usually do duty as theatersin cities of Burlington's size.
We had not time to go ashore in Muscatine, but had a daylightview of it from the boat
I lived there awhile, many years ago,but the place, now, had a rather unfamiliar look; so Isuppose it has clear outgrown the town which I used to know.
In fact, I know it has; for I remember it as a small place--which it isn't now
But I remember it best for a lunaticwho caught me out in the fields, one Sunday, and extracteda butcher-knife from his boot and proposed to carve me up with it,unless I acknowledged him to be the only son of the Devil.
I tried to compromise on an acknowledgment that he was the onlymember of the family I had met; but that did not satisfy him;he wouldn't have any half-measures; I must say he was the soleand only son of the Devil--he whetted his knife on his boot.
It did not seem worth while to make trouble about a little thinglike that; so I swung round to his view of the matter and savedmy skin whole
Shortly afterward, he went to visit his father;and as he has not turned up since, I trust he is there yet.
And I remember Muscatine--still more pleasantly--for its summer sunsets.
I have never seen any, on either side of the ocean, that equaled them.
They used the broad smooth river as a canvas, and painted on it everyimaginable dream of color, from the mottled daintinesses and delicaciesof the opal, all the way up, through cumulative intensities, to blindingpurple and crimson conflagrations which were enchanting to the eye,but sharply tried it at the same time
All the Upper Mississippiregion has these extraordinary sunsets as a familiar spectacle.
It is the true Sunset Land:  I am sure no other country can show so gooda right to the name
The sunrises are also said to be exceedingly fine.
I do not know.
On the Upper River
THE big towns drop in, thick and fast, now:  and between stretchprocessions of thrifty farms, not desolate solitude
Hour by hour,the boat plows deeper and deeper into the great and populous North-west;and with each successive section of it which is revealed,one's surprise and respect gather emphasis and increase.
Such a people, and such achievements as theirs, compel homage.
This is an independent race who think for themselves, and who arecompetent to do it, because they are educated and enlightened;they read, they keep abreast of the best and newest thought,they fortify every weak place in their land with a school,a college, a library, and a newspaper; and they live under law.
Solicitude for the future of a race like this is not in order.
This region is new; so new that it may be said to be still in its babyhood.
By what it has accomplished while still teething, one may forecastwhat marvels it will do in the strength of its maturity
It is so newthat the foreign tourist has not heard of it yet; and has not visited it.
For sixty years, the foreign tourist has steamed up and down the riverbetween St
Louis and New Orleans, and then gone home and written his book,believing he had seen all of the river that was worth seeing or thathad anything to see
In not six of all these books is there mentionof these Upper River towns--for the reason that the five or six touristswho penetrated this region did it before these towns were projected.
The latest tourist of them all (1878) made the same old regulation trip--he had not heard that there was anything north of St
Yet there was
There was this amazing region, bristling with great towns,projected day before yesterday, so to speak, and built next morning.
A score of them number from fifteen hundred to five thousand people.
Then we have Muscatine, ten thousand; Winona, ten thousand; Moline,ten thousand; Rock Island, twelve thousand; La Crosse, twelve thousand;Burlington, twenty-five thousand; Dubuque, twenty-five thousand;Davenport, thirty thousand; St
Paul, fifty-eight thousand, Minneapolis,sixty thousand and upward.
The foreign tourist has never heard of these; there is no note of themin his books
They have sprung up in the night, while he slept.
So new is this region, that I, who am comparatively young,am yet older than it is
When I was born, St
Paul had a populationof three persons, Minneapolis had just a third as many.
The then population of Minneapolis died two years ago; and whenhe died he had seen himself undergo an increase, in forty years,of fifty-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine persons.
He had a frog's fertility.
I must explain that the figures set down above, as the population of St
Pauland Minneapolis, are several months old
These towns are far larger now.
In fact, I have just seen a newspaper estimate which gives the formerseventy-one thousand, and the latter seventy-eight thousand.
This book will not reach the public for six or seven months yet;none of the figures will be worth much then.
We had a glimpse of Davenport, which is another beautiful city,crowning a hill--a phrase which applies to all these towns; for theyare all comely, all well built, clean, orderly, pleasant to the eye,and cheering to the spirit; and they are all situated upon hills.
Therefore we will give that phrase a rest
The Indians have a traditionthat Marquette and Joliet camped where Davenport now stands, in 1673.
The next white man who camped there, did it about a hundred and seventyyears later--in 1834
Davenport has gathered its thirty thousandpeople within the past thirty years
She sends more children to herschools now, than her whole population numbered twenty-three years ago.
She has the usual Upper River quota of factories, newspapers,and institutions of learning; she has telephones, local telegraphs,an electric alarm, and an admirable paid fire department,consisting of six hook and ladder companies, four steam fire engines,and thirty churches
Davenport is the official residence of two bishops--Episcopal and Catholic.
Opposite Davenport is the flourishing town of Rock Island,which lies at the foot of the Upper Rapids
A great railroadbridge connects the two towns--one of the thirteen which fretthe Mississippi and the pilots, between St
Louis and St
The charming island of Rock Island, three miles long and halfa mile wide, belongs to the United States, and the Government hasturned it into a wonderful park, enhancing its natural attractionsby art, and threading its fine forests with many miles of drives.
Near the center of the island one catches glimpses, through the trees,of ten vast stone four-story buildings, each of which covers an acreof ground
These are the Government workshops; for the Rock Islandestablishment is a national armory and arsenal.
We move up the river--always through enchanting scenery,there being no other kind on the Upper Mississippi--and pass Moline, a center of vast manufacturing industries;and Clinton and Lyons, great lumber centers; and presentlyreach Dubuque, which is situated in a rich mineral region.
The lead mines are very productive, and of wide extent.
Dubuque has a great number of manufacturing establishments; among thema plow factory which has for customers all Christendom in general.
At least so I was told by an agent of the concern who was onthe boat
'You show me any country under the sun where they really know how to plow,and if I don't show you our mark on the plow they use, I'll eat that plow;and I won't ask for any Woostershyre sauce to flavor it up with, either.'
All this part of the river is rich in Indian history and traditions.
Black Hawk's was once a puissant name hereabouts; as was Keokuk's,further down
A few miles below Dubuque is the Tete de Mort--Death's-head rock, or bluff--to the top of which the French drovea band of Indians, in early times, and cooped them up there,with death for a certainty, and only the manner of it matterof choice--to starve, or jump off and kill themselves.
Black Hawk adopted the ways of the white people, toward the endof his life; and when he died he was buried, near Des Moines,in Christian fashion, modified by Indian custom; that is to say,clothed in a Christian military uniform, and with a Christian canein his hand, but deposited in the grave in a sitting posture.
Formerly, a horse had always been buried with a chief.
The substitution of the cane shows that Black Hawk's haughty naturewas really humbled, and he expected to walk when he got over.
We noticed that above Dubuque the water of the Mississippi wasolive-green--rich and beautiful and semi-transparent, with the sun on it.
Of course the water was nowhere as clear or of as fine a complexion as itis in some other seasons of the year; for now it was at flood stage,and therefore dimmed and blurred by the mud manufactured from caving banks.
The majestic bluffs that overlook the river, along through this region,charm one with the grace and variety of their forms, and the softbeauty of their adornment
The steep verdant slope, whose baseis at the water's edge is topped by a lofty rampart of broken,turreted rocks, which are exquisitely rich and mellow in color--mainly dark browns and dull greens, but splashed with other tints.
And then you have the shining river, winding here and there and yonder,its sweep interrupted at intervals by clusters of wooded islandsthreaded by silver channels; and you have glimpses of distant villages,asleep upon capes; and of stealthy rafts slipping along in the shadeof the forest walls; and of white steamers vanishing around remote points.
And it is all as tranquil and reposeful as dreamland, and has nothingthis-worldly about it--nothing to hang a fret or a worry upon.
Until the unholy train comes tearing along--which it presently does,ripping the sacred solitude to rags and tatters with its devil'swarwhoop and the roar and thunder of its rushing wheels--and straightwayyou are back in this world, and with one of its frets ready to handfor your entertainment:  for you remember that this is the very roadwhose stock always goes down after you buy it, and always goes upagain as soon as you sell it
It makes me shudder to this day,to remember that I once came near not getting rid of my stock at all.
It must be an awful thing to have a railroad left on your hands.
The locomotive is in sight from the deck of the steamboat almostthe whole way from St
Eight years ago a boat used to go up the river with every stateroom full,and people piled five and six deep on the cabin floor; and a soliddeck-load of immigrants and harvesters down below, into the bargain.
To get a first-class stateroom, you'd got to prove sixteen quarteringsof nobility and four hundred years of descent, or be personallyacquainted with the nigger that blacked the captain's boots.
But it's all changed now; plenty staterooms above, no harvesters below--there's a patent self-binder now, and they don't have harvestersany more; they've gone where the woodbine twineth--and they didn't goby steamboat, either; went by the train.'
Up in this region we met massed acres of lumber rafts coming down--but not floating leisurely along, in the old-fashioned way,manned with joyous and reckless crews of fiddling,song-singing, whiskey-drinking, breakdown-dancing rapscallions;no, the whole thing was shoved swiftly along by a powerfulstern-wheeler, modern fashion, and the small crews were quiet,orderly men, of a sedate business aspect, with not a suggestionof romance about them anywhere.
Along here, somewhere, on a black night, we ran some exceedinglynarrow and intricate island-chutes by aid of the electric light.
Behind was solid blackness--a crackless bank of it; ahead, a narrowelbow of water, curving between dense walls of foliage that almosttouched our bows on both sides; and here every individual leaf,and every individual ripple stood out in its natural color,and flooded with a glare as of noonday intensified.
The effect was strange, and fine, and very striking.
We passed Prairie du Chien, another of Father Marquette's camping-places;and after some hours of progress through varied and beautiful scenery,reached La Crosse
Here is a town of twelve or thirteen thousand population,with electric lighted streets, and with blocks of buildings which are statelyenough, and also architecturally fine enough, to command respect in any city.
It is a choice town, and we made satisfactory use of the hour allowed us,in roaming it over, though the weather was rainier than necessary.
Legends and Scenery
WE added several passengers to our list, at La Crosse; among othersan old gentleman who had come to this north-western regionwith the early settlers, and was familiar with every part of it.
Pardonably proud of it, too
'You'll find scenery between here and St
Paul that can givethe Hudson points
You'll have the Queen's Bluff--seven hundredfeet high, and just as imposing a spectacle as you can find anywheres;and Trempeleau Island, which isn't like any other island in America,I believe, for it is a gigantic mountain, with precipitous sides,and is full of Indian traditions, and used to be full of rattlesnakes;if you catch the sun just right there, you will have a picture thatwill stay with you
And above Winona you'll have lovely prairies;and then come the Thousand Islands, too beautiful for anything;green?
why you never saw foliage so green, nor packed so thick;it's like a thousand plush cushions afloat on a looking-glass--when the water 's still; and then the monstrous bluffs on both sides ofthe river--ragged, rugged, dark-complected--just the frame that's wanted;you always want a strong frame, you know, to throw up the nice pointsof a delicate picture and make them stand out.'
The old gentleman also told us a touching Indian legend or two--but not very powerful ones.
After this excursion into history, he came back to the scenery,and described it, detail by detail, from the Thousand Islandsto St
Paul; naming its names with such facility, tripping alonghis theme with such nimble and confident ease, slamming in athree-ton word, here and there, with such a complacent air of 'tisn't-anything,-I-can-do-it-any-time-I-want-to, and letting offfine surprises of lurid eloquence at such judicious intervals,that I presently began to suspect--
But no matter what I began to suspect
'Ten miles above Winona we come to Fountain City, nestling sweetly at the feetof cliffs that lift their awful fronts, Jovelike, toward the blue depthsof heaven, bathing them in virgin atmospheres that have known no other contactsave that of angels' wings.
'And next we glide through silver waters, amid lovely and stupendousaspects of nature that attune our hearts to adoring admiration,about twelve miles, and strike Mount Vernon, six hundred feet high,with romantic ruins of a once first-class hotel perchedfar among the cloud shadows that mottle its dizzy heights--sole remnant of once-flourishing Mount Vernon, town of early days,now desolate and utterly deserted.
'And so we move on
Past Chimney Rock we fly--noble shaft of sixhundred feet; then just before landing at Minnieska our attention isattracted by a most striking promontory rising over five hundred feet--the ideal mountain pyramid
Its conic shape--thickly-wooded surfacegirding its sides, and its apex like that of a cone, cause the spectatorto wonder at nature's workings
From its dizzy heights superb viewsof the forests, streams, bluffs, hills and dales below and beyondfor miles are brought within its focus
What grander river scenerycan be conceived, as we gaze upon this enchanting landscape,from the uppermost point of these bluffs upon the valleys below?
The primeval wildness and awful loneliness of these sublime creationsof nature and nature's God, excite feelings of unbounded admiration,and the recollection of which can never be effaced from the memory,as we view them in any direction.
'Next we have the Lion's Head and the Lioness's Head, carved bynature's hand, to adorn and dominate the beauteous stream;and then anon the river widens, and a most charming and magnificentview of the valley before us suddenly bursts upon our vision;rugged hills, clad with verdant forests from summit to base,level prairie lands, holding in their lap the beautiful Wabasha,City of the Healing Waters, puissant foe of Bright's disease,and that grandest conception of nature's works, incomparable Lake Pepin--these constitute a picture whereon the tourist's eye may gazeuncounted hours, with rapture unappeased and unappeasable.
'And so we glide along; in due time encountering those majestic domes,the mighty Sugar Loaf, and the sublime Maiden's Rock--which latter,romantic superstition has invested with a voice; and oft-timesas the birch canoe glides near, at twilight, the dusky paddlerfancies he hears the soft sweet music of the long-departed Winona,darling of Indian song and story.
'Then Frontenac looms upon our vision, delightful resort of jadedsummer tourists; then progressive Red Wing; and Diamond Bluff, impressive andpreponderous in its lone sublimity; then Prescott and the St
Croix;and anon we see bursting upon us the domes and steeples of St
Paul,giant young chief of the North, marching with seven-league stride inthe van of progress, banner-bearer of the highest and newest civilization,carving his beneficent way with the tomahawk of commercial enterprise,sounding the warwhoop of Christian culture, tearing off the reeking scalpof sloth and superstition to plant there the steam-plow and the school-house--ever in his front stretch arid lawlessness, ignorance, crime, despair;ever in his wake bloom the jail, the gallows, and the pulpit; and ever----'
'Have you ever traveled with a panorama?'
'I have formerly served in that capacity.'
My suspicion was confirmed.
'Do you still travel with it?'
'No, she is laid up till the fall season opens
I am helping now to work upthe materials for a Tourist's Guide which the St
Louis and St
Paul PacketCompany are going to issue this summer for the benefit of travelers who goby that line.'
'When you were talking of Maiden's Rock, you spoke ofthe long-departed Winona, darling of Indian song and story.
Is she the maiden of the rock?
--and are the two connected by legend?'
'Yes, and a very tragic and painful one
Perhaps the most celebrated,as well as the most pathetic, of all the legends of the Mississippi.'
We asked him to tell it
He dropped out of his conversationalvein and back into his lecture-gait without an effort,and rolled on as follows--
'A little distance above Lake City is a famous point knownas Maiden's Rock, which is not only a picturesque spot, but isfull of romantic interest from the event which gave it its name,Not many years ago this locality was a favorite resort for the SiouxIndians on account of the fine fishing and hunting to be had there,and large numbers of them were always to be found in this locality.
Among the families which used to resort here, was one belongingto the tribe of Wabasha
We-no-na (first-born) was the nameof a maiden who had plighted her troth to a lover belongingto the same band
But her stern parents had promised her handto another, a famous warrior, and insisted on her wedding him.
The day was fixed by her parents, to her great grief.
She appeared to accede to the proposal and accompany them tothe rock, for the purpose of gathering flowers for the feast.
On reaching the rock, We-no-na ran to its summit and standing onits edge upbraided her parents who were below, for their cruelty,and then singing a death-dirge, threw herself from the precipice anddashed them in pieces on the rock below.'
'Dashed who in pieces--her parents?'
'Well, it certainly was a tragic business, as you say.
And moreover, there is a startling kind of dramatic surpriseabout it which I was not looking for
It is a distinctimprovement upon the threadbare form of Indian legend.
There are fifty Lover's Leaps along the Mississippi from whosesummit disappointed Indian girls have jumped, but this is the onlyjump in the lot hat turned out in the right and satisfactory way.
What became of Winona?'
'She was a good deal jarred up and jolted:  but she got herselftogether and disappeared before the coroner reached the fatal spot;and 'tis said she sought and married her true love, and wanderedwith him to some distant clime, where she lived happy ever after,her gentle spirit mellowed and chastened by the romantic incidentwhich had so early deprived her of the sweet guidance of a mother'slove and a father's protecting arm, and thrown her, all unfriended,upon the cold charity of a censorious world.'
I was glad to hear the lecturer's description of the scenery,for it assisted my appreciation of what I saw of it, and enabledme to imagine such of it as we lost by the intrusion of night.
As the lecturer remarked, this whole region is blanketed with Indiantales and traditions
But I reminded him that people usually merelymention this fact--doing it in a way to make a body's mouth water--and judiciously stopped there
Why?
Because the impression left,was that these tales were full of incident and imagination--a pleasantimpression which would be promptly dissipated if the tales were told.
I showed him a lot of this sort of literature which I had been collecting,and he confessed that it was poor stuff, exceedingly sorry rubbish;and I ventured to add that the legends which he had himself told uswere of this character, with the single exception of the admirablestory of Winona
He granted these facts, but said that if I wouldhunt up Mr
Schoolcraft's book, published near fifty years ago,and now doubtless out of print, I would find some Indian inventionsin it that were very far from being barren of incident and imagination;that the tales in Hiawatha were of this sort, and they came fromSchoolcraft's book; and that there were others in the same bookwhich Mr
Longfellow could have turned into verse with good effect.
For instance, there was the legend of 'The Undying Head.'
He could not tell it, for many of the details had grown dimin his memory; but he would recommend me to find it and enlargemy respect for the Indian imagination
He said that this tale,and most of the others in the book, were current among the Indiansalong this part of the Mississippi when he first came here;and that the contributors to Schoolcraft's book had got them directlyfrom Indian lips, and had written them down with strict exactness,and without embellishments of their own.
I have found the book
The lecturer was right
There are severallegends in it which confirm what he said
I will offer two of them--'TheUndying Head,' and 'Peboan and Seegwun, an Allegory of the Seasons.'
The latter is used in Hiawatha; but it is worth reading in the original form,if only that one may see how effective a genuine poem can be withoutthe helps and graces of poetic measure and rhythm--
PEBOAN AND SEEGWUN.
An old man was sitting alone in his lodge, by the sideof a frozen stream
It was the close of winter, and his firewas almost out, He appeared very old and very desolate.
His locks were white with age, and he trembled in every joint.
Day after day passed in solitude, and he heard nothing but the soundof the tempest, sweeping before it the new-fallen snow.
One day, as his fire was just dying, a handsome young man approachedand entered his dwelling
His cheeks were red with the blood of youth,his eyes sparkled with animation, and a smile played upon his lips.
He walked with a light and quick step
His forehead was boundwith a wreath of sweet grass, in place of a warrior's frontlet,and he carried a bunch of flowers in his hand.
'Ah, my son,' said the old man, 'I am happy to see you.
Come in
Come and tell me of your adventures, and what strangelands you have been to see
Let us pass the night together.
I will tell you of my prowess and exploits, and what I can perform.
You shall do the same, and we will amuse ourselves.'
He then drew from his sack a curiously wrought antique pipe,and having filled it with tobacco, rendered mild by a mixtureof certain leaves, handed it to his guest
When this ceremonywas concluded they began to speak.
'I blow my breath,' said the old man, 'and the stream stands still.
The water becomes stiff and hard as clear stone.'
'I breathe,' said the young man, 'and flowers spring up over the plain.'
'I shake my locks,' retorted the old man, 'and snow covers the land.
The leaves fall from the trees at my command, and my breath blows them away.
The birds get up from the water, and fly to a distant land.
The animals hide themselves from my breath, and the very ground becomes ashard as flint.'
'I shake my ringlets,' rejoined the young man, 'and warm showersof soft rain fall upon the earth
The plants lift up their headsout of the earth, like the eyes of children glistening with delight.
My voice recalls the birds
The warmth of my breath unlocks the streams.
Music fills the groves wherever I walk, and all nature rejoices.'
At length the sun began to rise
A gentle warmth cameover the place
The tongue of the old man became silent.
The robin and bluebird began to sing on the top of the lodge.
The stream began to murmur by the door, and the fragrance of growingherbs and flowers came softly on the vernal breeze.
Daylight fully revealed to the young man the character of his entertainer.
When he looked upon him, he had the icy visage of Peboan.
Paul, at the head of navigation of the Mississippi,and there our voyage of two thousand miles from New Orleans ended
It isabout a ten-day trip by steamer
It can probably be done quicker by rail.
I judge so because I know that one may go by rail from St
Louis to Hannibal--a distance of at least a hundred and twenty miles--in seven hours.
This is better than walking; unless one is in a hurry.
The season being far advanced when we were in New Orleans, the rosesand magnolia blossoms were falling; but here in St
Paul it was the snow,In New Orleans we had caught an occasional withering breath from overa crater, apparently; here in St
Paul we caught a frequent benumbingone from over a glacier, apparently.
But I wander from my theme
Paul is a wonderful town.
It is put together in solid blocks of honest brick and stone,and has the air of intending to stay
Its post-office was establishedthirty-six years ago; and by and by, when the postmaster receiveda letter, he carried it to Washington, horseback, to inquire whatwas to be done with it
Such is the legend
Two frame houses werebuilt that year, and several persons were added to the population.
A recent number of the leading St
Paul paper, the 'Pioneer Press,'gives some statistics which furnish a vivid contrast to that oldstate of things, to wit:  Population, autumn of the present year(1882), 71,000; number of letters handled, first half ofthe year, 1,209,387; number of houses built during three-quartersof the year, 989; their cost, $3,186,000
The increase of lettersover the corresponding six months of last year was fifty per cent.
Paul's strength lies in her commerce--I mean his commerce.
He is a manufacturing city, of course--all the cities of thatregion are--but he is peculiarly strong in the matter of commerce.
Last year his jobbing trade amounted to upwards of $52,000,000.
He has a custom-house, and is building a costly capitol to replacethe one recently burned--for he is the capital of the State.
He has churches without end; and not the cheap poor kind,but the kind that the rich Protestant puts up, the kind thatthe poor Irish 'hired-girl' delights to erect
What a passionfor building majestic churches the Irish hired-girl has.
It is a fine thing for our architecture but too often we enjoyher stately fanes without giving her a grateful thought.
In fact, instead of reflecting that 'every brick and every stonein this beautiful edifice represents an ache or a pain, and a handfulof sweat, and hours of heavy fatigue, contributed by the backand forehead and bones of poverty,' it is our habit to forgetthese things entirely, and merely glorify the mighty temple itself,without vouchsafing one praiseful thought to its humble builder,whose rich heart and withered purse it symbolizes.
This is a land of libraries and schools
Paul has three public libraries,and they contain, in the aggregate, some forty thousand books.
He has one hundred and sixteen school-houses, and pays out more thanseventy thousand dollars a year in teachers' salaries.
There is an unusually fine railway station; so large is it,in fact, that it seemed somewhat overdone, in the matterof size, at first; but at the end of a few months it wasperceived that the mistake was distinctly the other way.
The error is to be corrected.
The town stands on high ground; it is about seven hundred feetabove the sea level
It is so high that a wide view of riverand lowland is offered from its streets.
It is a very wonderful town indeed, and is not finished yet.
All the streets are obstructed with building material,and this is being compacted into houses as fast as possible,to make room for more--for other people are anxious to build,as soon as they can get the use of the streets to pile up their bricksand stuff in.
How solemn and beautiful is the thought, that the earliest pioneerof civilization, the van-leader of civilization, is never the steamboat,never the railroad, never the newspaper, never the Sabbath-school,never the missionary--but always whiskey!
Such is the case.
Look history over; you will see
The missionary comes after the whiskey--I mean he arrives after the whiskey has arrived; next comesthe poor immigrant, with ax and hoe and rifle; next, the trader;next, the miscellaneous rush; next, the gambler, the desperado,the highwayman, and all their kindred in sin of both sexes; and next,the smart chap who has bought up an old grant that covers all the land;this brings the lawyer tribe; the vigilance committee brings the undertaker.
All these interests bring the newspaper; the newspaper starts up politicsand a railroad; all hands turn to and build a church and a jail--and behold, civilization is established for ever in the land.
But whiskey, you see, was the van-leader in this beneficent work.
It always is
It was like a foreigner--and excusable in a foreigner--to be ignorant of this great truth, and wander off into astronomyto borrow a symbol
But if he had been conversant with the facts,he would have said--
Westward the Jug of Empire takes its way.
This great van-leader arrived upon the ground which St
Paul now occupies,in June 1837
Yes, at that date, Pierre Parrant, a Canadian, built thefirst cabin, uncorked his jug, and began to sell whiskey to the Indians.
The result is before us.
All that I have said of the newness, briskness, swift progress,wealth, intelligence, fine and substantial architecture,and general slash and go, and energy of St
Paul, will applyto his near neighbor, Minneapolis--with the additionthat the latter is the bigger of the two cities.
These extraordinary towns were ten miles apart, a few months ago,but were growing so fast that they may possibly be joined now,and getting along under a single mayor
At any rate, within five yearsfrom now there will be at least such a substantial ligament of buildingsstretching between them and uniting them that a stranger will not be ableto tell where the one Siamese twin leaves off and the other begins.
Combined, they will then number a population of two hundred andfifty thousand, if they continue to grow as they are now growing.
Thus, this center of population at the head of Mississippi navigation,will then begin a rivalry as to numbers, with that center of populationat the foot of it--New Orleans.
Minneapolis is situated at the falls of St
Anthony, which stretch acrossthe river, fifteen hundred feet, and have a fall of eighty-two feet--a waterpower which, by art, has been made of inestimable value,business-wise, though somewhat to the damage of the Falls as a spectacle,or as a background against which to get your photograph taken.
Thirty flouring-mills turn out two million barrels of the verychoicest of flour every year; twenty sawmills produce two hundredmillion feet of lumber annually; then there are woolen mills,cotton mills, paper and oil mills; and sash, nail, furniture,barrel, and other factories, without number, so to speak.
The great flouring-mills here and at St
Paul use the 'new process'and mash the wheat by rolling, instead of grinding it.
Sixteen railroads meet in Minneapolis, and sixty-five passenger trains arriveand depart daily
In this place, as in St
Paul, journalism thrives.
Here there are three great dailies, ten weeklies, and three monthlies.
There is a university, with four hundred students--and, better still,its good efforts are not confined to enlightening the one sex.
There are sixteen public schools, with buildings which cost $500,000;there are six thousand pupils and one hundred and twenty-eight teachers.
There are also seventy churches existing, and a lot more projected.
The banks aggregate a capital of $3,000,000, and the wholesale jobbing tradeof the town amounts to $50,000,000 a year.
Paul and Minneapolis are several points of interest--Fort Snelling, a fortress occupying a river-bluff a hundredfeet high; the falls of Minnehaha, White-bear Lake, and so forth.
The beautiful falls of Minnehaha are sufficiently celebrated--they do not need a lift from me, in that direction.
The White-bear Lake is less known
It is a lovely sheet of water,and is being utilized as a summer resort by the wealth and fashionof the State
It has its club-house, and its hotel, with the modernimprovements and conveniences; its fine summer residences;and plenty of fishing, hunting, and pleasant drives.
There are a dozen minor summer resorts around about St
Pauland Minneapolis, but the White-bear Lake is the resort.
Connected with White-bear Lake is a most idiotic Indian legend.
I would resist the temptation to print it here, if I could,but the task is beyond my strength
The guide-book names the preserverof the legend, and compliments his 'facile pen.'
Every spring, for perhaps a century, or as long as there has been a nationof red men, an island in the middle of White-bear Lake has been visitedby a band of Indians for the purpose of making maple sugar.
Tradition says that many springs ago, while upon this island,a young warrior loved and wooed the daughter of his chief,and it is said, also, the maiden loved the warrior.
He had again and again been refused her hand by her parents,the old chief alleging that he was no brave, and his old consortcalled him a woman!
The sun had again set upon the 'sugar-bush,' and the bright moon rosehigh in the bright blue heavens, when the young warrior took down hisflute and went out alone, once more to sing the story of his love,the mild breeze gently moved the two gay feathers in his head-dress,and as he mounted on the trunk of a leaning tree, the damp snow fellfrom his feet heavily
As he raised his flute to his lips, his blanketslipped from his well-formed shoulders, and lay partly on the snow beneath.
He began his weird, wild love-song, but soon felt that he was cold,and as he reached back for his blanket, some unseen hand laid it gentlyon his shoulders; it was the hand of his love, his guardian angel.
She took her place beside him, and for the present they were happy;for the Indian has a heart to love, and in this pride he is as nobleas in his own freedom, which makes him the child of the forest.
As the legend runs, a large white-bear, thinking, perhaps, that polar snowsand dismal winter weather extended everywhere, took up his journey southward.
He at length approached the northern shore of the lake which now bearshis name, walked down the bank and made his way noiselessly throughthe deep heavy snow toward the island
It was the same spring ensuingthat the lovers met
They had left their first retreat, and were nowseated among the branches of a large elm which hung far over the lake.
In the meantime this white and savage beast heldthe breathless maiden in his huge grasp, and fondled with his preciousprey as if he were used to scenes like this
One deafening yell fromthe lover warrior is heard above the cries of hundreds of his tribe,and dashing away to his wigwam he grasps his faithful knife,returns almost at a single bound to the scene of fear and fright,rushes out along the leaning tree to the spot where his treasure fell,and springing with the fury of a mad panther, pounced upon his prey.
The animal turned, and with one stroke of his huge paw broughtthe lovers heart to heart, but the next moment the warrior, with oneplunge of the blade of his knife, opened the crimson sluices of death,and the dying bear relaxed his hold.
That night there was no more sleep for the band or the lovers,and as the young and the old danced about the carcass of the dead monster,the gallant warrior was presented with another plume, and ereanother moon had set he had a living treasure added to his heart.
Their children for many years played upon the skin of the white-bear--from which the lake derives its name--and the maiden and the braveremembered long the fearful scene and rescue that made them one,for Kis-se-me-pa and Ka-go-ka could never forget their fearfulencounter with the huge monster that came so near sending them tothe happy hunting-ground.
It is a perplexing business
First, she fell down out of the tree--she and the blanket; and the bear caught her and fondled her--her and the blanket; then she fell up into the tree again--leaving the blanket; meantime the lover goes war-whoopinghome and comes back 'heeled,' climbs the tree, jumps down onthe bear, the girl jumps down after him--apparently, for shewas up the tree--resumes her place in the bear's arms alongwith the blanket, the lover rams his knife into the bear,and saves--whom, the blanket?
You get yourself all worked up and excited about that blanket,and then all of a sudden, just when a happy climax seemsimminent you are let down flat--nothing saved but the girl.
Whereas, one is not interested in the girl; she is notthe prominent feature of the legend
Nevertheless, there youare left, and there you must remain; for if you livea thousand years you will never know who got the blanket.
A dead man could get up a better legend than this one.
I don't mean a fresh dead man either; I mean a man that's been deadweeks and weeks.
We struck the home-trail now, and in a few hours were in thatastonishing Chicago--a city where they are always rubbing the lamp,and fetching up the genii, and contriving and achieving new impossibilities.
It is hopeless for the occasional visitor to try to keep up with Chicago--she outgrows his prophecies faster than he can make them.
She is always a novelty; for she is never the Chicago you saw when youpassed through the last time
The Pennsylvania road rushed us to NewYork without missing schedule time ten minutes anywhere on the route;and there ended one of the most enjoyable five-thousand-mile journeys I haveever had the good fortune to make.